Campus Life Connect across campus and in the community Breadcrumb Home Campus Life In this section In this section Campus Life Toggle Submenu Michigan Experience Get Involved Housing Health and Wellness Athletics Working and Studying Beyond Campus At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll get more than a great education. You’ll join a multicultural campus, discover your own strengths, forge lifelong friendships and contribute to your community.Explore your passions – and make an impact – by joining one of our more than 150 student groups or volunteering in the community. Serious about sports? From single-day sports tournaments to low-commitment leagues that meet once a week, intramurals offer the chance for everyday students to get a taste of collegiate athletics. Rather be in the stands? Get a front-row seat at the Fieldhouse to watch the Wolverines take on our division rivals. UM-Dearborn students also have the opportunity to purchase student season tickets to cheer on the Big Ten Wolverines (football, basketball and hockey) in Ann Arbor! Stay fit and active with strength training or pilates classes at the Wellness Center. Bike, run or walk on the Rouge River Gateway Trail or in our Environmental Study Area.Each of our colleges offers a range of opportunities to explore beyond the classroom, with study abroad programs, community-based programming, public events and more.Or connect just down the road on the Ann Arbor campus, with opportunities to participate in the Michigan Marching Band, Cheerleading, ROTC, Ann Arbor student groups and more.Life on and off campus is full of opportunities—choose what inspires you. Getting Involved at UM-Dearborn Meet new people, gain leadership opportunities and expand your horizons through one of our 150 student organizations. Student Organizations Athletics Community Service Fraternity-Sorority Life Working and Studying Do you plan to work while you study at UM-Dearborn? More than 75 percent of our students work at least part-time. Find out about internship opportunities and on-campus jobs. Internships and Co-ops Student Employment Connecting with Your College Our four colleges offer unique, immersive experiential learning experiences, engagement opportunities and support so you can define your UM-Dearborn experience. Life at CASL Life at CECS Life at CEHHS Life at COB UM-Dearborn Difference Makers Our students are improving the lives of others and making an impact in the community. Meet more Difference Makers. UM-Dearborn Difference Makers It's a place where you can feel like you're at home but, you also have room to grow. Jordan Ewald Related Resources University Unions and Events