Previous Students are recognized for their achievements both inside and outside the classroom Medallion recipients are chosen by faculty from their respective colleges, graduates are recognized for their outstanding quality of character, vitality, intellect, integrity, and academic record. Student Awards CEHHS is committed to ideals of Project Based Learning Students need to apply the skills and knowledge they are taught in the classroom in authentic ways and CEHHS provides many opportunities to actively put into practice what they are learning in real-world placements. Learn More New B.A. & M.A. in Instructional Design and Learning Technologies Our program blends cutting-edge theories with real-world practice, preparing you to innovate and excel in diverse learning experiences in educational and professional settings. Get the opportunity to engage in immersive projects, internships, and research, mentored by leading faculty and industry experts. Learn More New B.A. Sports Management Prepares and delivers the next generation of sports industry professionals by equipping them with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and ethical frameworks necessary to create an inclusive and equitable sports environments. Learn More New M.S. Healthcare Administration and Leadership The curriculum tailors future healthcare visionaries in mastering individual and team leadership theories, design impactful strategies to promote health equity, and navigate the business aspects of healthcare. Discover the hands-on approach to financial, marketing, data analysis, and operations management to become proficient in the art of effective healthcare delivery. Learn More Students are recognized for their achievements both inside and outside the classroom Medallion recipients are chosen by faculty from their respective colleges, graduates are recognized for their outstanding quality of character, vitality, intellect, integrity, and academic record. Student Awards CEHHS is committed to ideals of Project Based Learning Students need to apply the skills and knowledge they are taught in the classroom in authentic ways and CEHHS provides many opportunities to actively put into practice what they are learning in real-world placements. Learn More New B.A. & M.A. in Instructional Design and Learning Technologies Our program blends cutting-edge theories with real-world practice, preparing you to innovate and excel in diverse learning experiences in educational and professional settings. Get the opportunity to engage in immersive projects, internships, and research, mentored by leading faculty and industry experts. Learn More New B.A. Sports Management Prepares and delivers the next generation of sports industry professionals by equipping them with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and ethical frameworks necessary to create an inclusive and equitable sports environments. Learn More New M.S. Healthcare Administration and Leadership The curriculum tailors future healthcare visionaries in mastering individual and team leadership theories, design impactful strategies to promote health equity, and navigate the business aspects of healthcare. Discover the hands-on approach to financial, marketing, data analysis, and operations management to become proficient in the art of effective healthcare delivery. Learn More Students are recognized for their achievements both inside and outside the classroom Medallion recipients are chosen by faculty from their respective colleges, graduates are recognized for their outstanding quality of character, vitality, intellect, integrity, and academic record. Student Awards Next123451/5 Breadcrumb Home College of Education, Health, & Human Services How to Reach UsDuring the Fall 2021 semester we’ll be conducting university business in-person and virtually. Our contact information and location are below:CEHHS Office of Student SuccessVirtual Office Hours: Monday - Friday; 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (except for holidays)In-Person Office Hours: Monday - Thursday; 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (for the month of September, updates will be post for October and beyond)email: cehhs-oss@umich.eduPhone: 313-593-5090Virtual Drop In: Drop in QueueDean's SuiteIn-Person Office Hours: Monday - Friday; 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.email: umd-cehhs-admin@umich.eduPhone: 313-593-5435Location: Fairlane Center South, Room 253 College of Education, Health, & Human Services We are committed to excellence rooted in strong academics, innovative research, and engaged learning. We provide strong theoretical grounding and meaningful practical experiences involving contemporary educational, health, and social issues. Awards & Accreditations The University of Michigan-Dearborn Educator Preparation Program is granted accreditation at the initial-licensure and advanced level by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP), for a period of six years, from 2020-2026. This accreditation certifies that the program has provided evidence that it adheres to CAEP’s standards. Current News More CEHHS News 5/2/2026 Congrats, Class of Spring 2026! UM-Dearborn awarded 1,090 degrees during three commencement ceremonies on May 2 — helping U-M reach one million degrees conferred.... 4/29/2026 Class of Spring 2026: CEHHS graduate Collin Miller The sports management major found his place at UM-Dearborn — and a clear path toward the future he wants in athletics. Along the way, he’s built lasting bonds and collected memories that will stay with him long after graduation.... 4/15/2026 Congrats to the CECS and CEHHS Medallion winners Three students from each college are being recognized with top university awards for their outstanding academic achievements, leadership and contributions to the community.... 2/18/2026 Highlights from the 2026 State of the University Interim Chancellor Gabriella Scarlatta discussed milestones, opportunities and challenges, emphasizing that faculty and staff help students succeed in ways big and small each day.... Events More Events Jun 9 College of Education, Health, and Human Services Virtual Open House (6.9.26) June 9, 2026 6:00 pm -7:00 pm More Events