Mathematics, BA/BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Mathematics, BA/BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty Mathematics and Statistics College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Combine Theory With Practical ApplicationsOur mathematics bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides a strong foundation in both theoretical and applied mathematics, preparing you for a wide range of opportunities in our data-driven world. You have many options to personalize the program with courses that fulfill your personal interests and professional goals.Where a Mathematics Degree Will Take YouThe analytical and problem-solving skills you learn in our mathematics program will prepare you for a wide range of careers. Our graduates have found exciting opportunities in academia, research, data analysis, IT, finance, and government, among other areas. A bachelor’s degree in mathematics also provides great preparation for pursuing graduate studies. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mathematicians and Statisticians Actuaries Operations Research Analysts Economists Data Scientists Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians (master’s usually required) Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Economists $115,440 Median SalaryEconomists (master’s usually required) Employment of economists is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 900 openings for economists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our mathematics degree includes a mix of required and elective courses. Depending partially on which courses you choose, you may study modern algebra, advanced calculus, probability, statistical computing, geometry, elementary number theory, topology, cryptography, wavelets, mathematical modeling, and numerical analysis, among other subjects. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain We’ve inserted opportunities for practice-based learning throughout the curriculum, letting you apply the knowledge you’ve gained to real-world scenarios. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) Our accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and a master’s degree in applied and computational mathematics in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to 16 credits of graduate courses that are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed prerequisite courses for the math major and at least 60 undergraduate credits in your mathematics program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2. Requirements for Minor/Concentration A minor or integrative studies concentration consists of four upper-level (numbered 300 or above) courses in mathematics (MATH). For a list of courses that cannot be used for the minor, see the Catalog.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can work as a tutor in the Math Learning Center, join the Mathematics Club, attend Mathematics Colloquia sponsored by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, participate in department events like the annual Pi day 3.14 and Women in Math celebrations, check out general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much, much more. Related Programs Applied Statistics, BA/BS Economics, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit