Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Pursue a Career in R&DOur PhD in Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering at UM-Dearborn is a full-time, research-based degree designed to train students to conduct original, high quality translational research and develop innovative technologies in the fields of electrical, electronics, and computer engineering. We’ve designed the program primarily for students interested in research and development careers in industry or academia. It typically takes five years to complete.To lessen financial concerns, all PhD students receive full funding in the form of appointments as a graduate student instructor, a research assistant, or both. The appointments provide a monthly stipend, health insurance, and a tuition waiver. Students are guaranteed full funding for up to five years provided they maintain good academic standing and adequate progress toward their degree.Where a PhD in Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering Will Take YouNumerous studies and survey data predict continued growth in engineering-related fields in the years to come. The PhD degree gives you the technical skills and professional development needed to excel in various career paths–whether that means diving into high-tech start-ups, leading projects in established engineering companies, or even pushing the boundaries of technology while pursuing an academic career. Program Details What You’ll Study Our robust, interdisciplinary curriculum includes both theoretical learning and practical applications and merges original research, engineering practice and continuing professional education. The EECE PhD program addresses the critical need for engineers who are proficient in emerging technologies, knowledgeable in the latest advancements in science and engineering and research that combines deep knowledge in both electrical and computer-related areas. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, practical learning is paramount. We believe in a solid foundation of academic knowledge buttressed by real-world application. As part of your program, you'll get hands-on experience solving real-world engineering problems, providing you with the skills to excel in the future. Admission Requirements Applicants to the EECE program are expected to have strong mathematical and technical skills, therefore the typical student should have a B.S. or M.S. in electrical, electronics, and/or computer engineering or in computer science. Students with a B.S. in other engineering fields or in physical or mathematical sciences can be considered, but some preparation courses may be required.A successful applicant will have demonstrated mastery in his or her undergraduate or graduate discipline. The expected mathematics background of a successful applicant includes ordinary differential equations, linear algebra, and probability and statistics. In computing, a successful applicant is expected to have computer programming facility and knowledge of data structures and algorithms. No particular language or programming methodology is required.Students must have a minimum GPA of 3.2 in their previous coursework to be admitted to the EECE Ph.D. program. In addition to coursework, the Ph.D. program committee will examine several aspects of a prospective student’s record. The application must include:a statement of purpose indicating the intended field or fields of research and prior R&D experience, anda personal statement that describes the background and life experiences, including cultural, geographical, financial, educational or other opportunities or challenges that motivate the decision to pursue a Ph.D. degree at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by February 1 for Fall consideration and August 1 for Winter consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Network Architects Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit