Environmental Science, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Environmental Science, MS CASL Graduate Programs draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Big Opportunities in a Small ProgramOur graduate program in environmental science at UM-Dearborn is small, which ensures you receive lots of personal attention from our faculty and their help in crafting an individualized plan of study and research that meets your professional goals. As a graduate student, you’ll have virtually boundless access to research equipment, laboratories, and other facilities for hands-on research. And you’ll have opportunities to conduct research with our esteemed faculty.Although environmental science can be a full-time graduate program, we’ve also made it accessible to working, part-time students by offering the classes during the evening, on Saturdays, and online. In fact, many of our graduate students have significant professional experience.Where an MS in Environmental Science Will Take YouIt will prepare you for a variety of fulfilling careers in state and national government agencies, local conservation agencies, private industry, environmental consulting firms, nonprofit organizations working in resource management and advocacy, and education, among others. You’ll also have a solid foundation for doctoral studies. Program Details What You’ll Study The 30-credit master’s degree includes 15 credits in core courses about invasive species ecology, environmental chemistry, environmental communications, watershed analysis, and glacial ecology. You have three options for the rest of your program:Write a thesis based on original research and take nine credits of electives at the 500 level or above. This is the option preferred by doctoral programs and the environmental consulting industry.Complete a project based on library, field, or laboratory research and take 12 credits of electives at the 500 level or above.Take 15 credits of electives at the 500 level or above. This option is not recommended if you plan to pursue a doctoral degree. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Graduate students have extensive access to research equipment and space, including labs for preparation and chemical analysis of environmental, biological and geological samples. Environmental chambers are available for experiments requiring precisely controlled environments for experimental study of both plants and animals. And with assistance from the National Science Foundation, we’ve acquired a scanning electron microscope in collaboration with the College of Engineering and an inductively coupled plasma spectrometer.Some of our other facilities for hands-on work include the Geospatial Analysis and Mapping Laboratory, the Science Learning Center, the Environmental Interpretive Center, the 120-acre Environmental Study Area, and a greenhouse.You also can get your hands dirty with immersive activities such as internships, fieldwork, and research with faculty. Put what you've learned into practice and make tangible changes in our community with our community engagement opportunities. Yet more hands-on experiences are available working as a student employee at the Environmental Interpretive Center, a consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, or a laboratory preparation assistant. Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree in environmental science or an equivalent field from an accredited program with a minimum GPA of 3.1.If you have a degree in another field, you may be considered if you provide a strong statement of purpose, have related career experiences or training, and provide strong letters of recommendation. If you’re admitted, you’ll be required to complete the program prerequisites within one year of acceptance.To apply, you should include the following with your application:A one-page statement of purpose explaining your career goals and specific reasons for interest in the programTwo letters of recommendation, one from a professor familiar with your academic performance Associated Faculty John AbramyanAssociate Professor of Biologyabramyan@umich.eduMelissa BowlinAssociate Professor of Biologymbowlin@umich.eduAnne Danielson-FrancoisAssociate Professor of Biological Sciencesdanfranc@umich.eduYiwei DengProfessor of Chemistrydengy@umich.eduMatthew HeinickeProfessor of Biology; Chair, Biological Sciences Disciplineheinicke@umich.eduUlrich KampProfessor of Earth and Environment; Chair, Earth and Environment Discipline; GIS Director; Environmental Internship Advisorukamp@umich.eduDaniel B. LawsonProfessor of Chemistrydblawson@umich.eduSimona MarinceanAssociate Professor of Chemistry; Chair, Chemistry Disciplinesimonam@umich.eduSven MorganProfessor of Geologysvenmor@umich.eduJacob NapieralskiProfessor of Geology; Director, Environmental Interpretive Center (EIC)jnapiera@umich.eduDavid SuskoAssociate Professor of Biologydsusko@umich.eduSonia M. Tiquia-ArashiroProfessor of Biology and Microbiologysmtiquia@umich.edu Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Environmental Scientists and Specialists Environmental Science and Protection Technicians Conservation Scientists and Foresters Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists Environmental Scientists and Specialists $80,060 Median SalaryEnvironmental Scientists and Specialists Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for environmental scientists and specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Science and Protection Technicians $49,490 Median SalaryEnvironmental Science and Protection Technicians Employment of environmental science and protection technicians is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 5,600 openings for environmental science and protection technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Conservation Scientists and Foresters $69,060 Median SalaryConservation Scientists and Foresters Overall employment of conservation scientists and foresters is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,600 openings for conservation scientists and foresters are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists $72,860 Median SalaryZoologists and Wildlife Biologists Employment of zoologists and wildlife biologists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 1,400 openings for zoologists and wildlife biologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. The MS in Environmental Science offers state-of-the-art research facilities to students and faculty engaged in addressing critical environmental issues. PROFESSOR SONIA TIQUIA-ARASHIRO How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage students to get involved both on and off campus. You can join student organizations such as the Restoration Ecology Club, Biology Club, among about 150 others; help your friends register to vote; volunteer for a variety of community outreach activities; and much more. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit