Microbiology, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Microbiology, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Prepare to Tackle Global Health and Environmental ChallengesHow can seemingly simple one-celled microorganisms have such a huge impact on our daily lives, for good and for bad? You’ll find out as you study viruses, bacteria, archaea bacteria, algae, fungi, and protozoa in our microbiology bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.Many microscopic organisms are essential for life, and can produce biologically active products such as enzymes and antibiotics. However, a small number of them cause diseases in plants and animals, including humans. A degree in microbiology from UM-Dearborn helps you understand the complex interactions that exist between these organisms and our biosphere, preparing you to tackle global challenges related to health and the environment.Where Will a Microbiology Degree Take Me?A degree in microbiology from UM-Dearborn opens up a diverse range of career paths. Graduates can explore laboratory positions in health care, research, pharmaceuticals, environmental conservation, government, academia and more. In addition, our students are regularly accepted into graduate programs in the life sciences and professional preparation programs for physicians, physician assistants, dentists, pharmacists, and veterinarians. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Microbiologists Biological Technicians Biochemists and Biophysicists Medical Scientists Clinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians Microbiologists $87,330 Median SalaryMicrobiologists Employment of microbiologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,700 openings for microbiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biological Technicians $52,000 Median SalaryBiological Technicians Employment of biological technicians is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 9,100 openings for biological technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists (Ph.D. usually required) Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Medical Scientists $100,590 Median SalaryMedical Scientists (Ph.D. or medical degree usually required) Employment of medical scientists is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for medical scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Clinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians $61,890 Median SalaryClinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians Employment of clinical laboratory technologists and technicians is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 22,600 openings for clinical laboratory technologists and technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The microbiology curriculum includes a wide range of introductory and specialized courses to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the field. In addition to general education classes, for your degree you’ll take:Two semesters each of mathematics and statistics, general chemistry, organic chemistry, and physicsOne semester of introductory biologyUpper-level coursework in microbiology, genetics, microbial physiology and biochemistry, environmental and public health microbiology, and pathogenic microbiologyAdditional upper-level coursework in microbiology, including a capstone experience during your senior year Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our extensive network of laboratories and learning centers ensures you’ll have plenty of opportunities to take what you've learned in the classroom and apply it to real-world scenarios. Our facilities include 10 teaching laboratories, 18 research laboratories, a microscope facility, a cell culture facility, a histology room, the Science Learning Center, the Environmental Interpretive Center, the 120-acre Environmental Study Area, a greenhouse, and many others.Opportunities also exist to conduct research with UM-Dearborn faculty in laboratories on campus and at off-campus sites, including clinical settings. Our faculty are actively researching cancer, the effects of toxins on early embryonic development, plant viruses and anti-insect strategies in plants, biomarker development, gene regulation, and many other subjects. In addition to gaining laboratory and data analysis experience, students who engage in research can present their findings at department, local, and national conferences. Students also have been co-authors on published manuscripts with UM-Dearborn faculty.Yet more hands-on experiences are available working as a student employee at the Environmental Interpretive Center, a consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, or a laboratory preparation assistant.Finally, some great real-world opportunities are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship and study abroad programs. Our microbiology majors have been awarded undergraduate summer internships through the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy National Laboratories. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in microbiology (MICR). Most of these courses have prerequisites.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Our campus offers a variety of opportunities for you to get involved in extracurricular activities related to microbiology. You can do everything from participating in outreach programs that cultivate science education in the community to joining student organizations like the Biology Club, Biochemistry Society, Minority Association of Pre-Med Students, Phi Delta Epsilon co-ed pre-med fraternity, Pre-Dental Association, Pre-Optometry Club, Pre-PA Association, Pre-Professional Health Society, Public Health Society, Restoration Ecology Club, and the Undergraduate Society of Psychology and Neuroscience. Programs Offered Beyond BS Environmental Science, MS Related Programs Biological Sciences, BS Biochemistry, BS Environmental Science, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit