Computer and Information Science, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer and Information Science, MS CIS Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science 4+1 Accelerated Masters Options Boost Your Career With Upgraded CIS SkillsThe MS in Computer and Information Science program at UM-Dearborn will enhance your theoretical knowledge and practical skills, providing new career opportunities or the ability to proceed to a PhD program. You choose many of your courses, giving you the flexibility to select those that best match your personal interests and professional goals.You can take your courses completely on campus, fully online, or in a mix of both modes. We schedule all courses in the late afternoon and evening to ensure that working professionals and part-time students can achieve their higher education goals without putting their lives on hold.Where a Master’s in Computer and Information Science Will Take YouYour advanced training in our master’s program will prepare you to excel as a software developer, data analyst, system architect, and in a variety of other high-demand IT roles. You’ll also be ready to continue your studies with a PhD in Computer and Information Science, a program we offer at UM-Dearborn. Program Details What You’ll Study The 30-credit MS program offers a mix of required core courses and the coursework/project/thesis option. Unless you choose to write a thesis, you’ll select two courses from two of the specialization areas:• Artificial Intelligence• Computer Graphics, Geometric Modeling, and Game Design• Computer Networks and Security• Data Management and Analytics• Information Systems• Software Engineering• Systems Software• Web/Cloud Computing The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our program emphasizes practice-based learning where students can enhance their skills and gain hands-on experience. You’ll have access to a variety of computing resources, ensuring that you have the tools necessary to hone your skills and become a successful IT professional. Admission Requirements To be considered for admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution and an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher. GRE not required.Applicants also must have successfully completed six courses as explained in the UM-Dearborn Catalog.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer and Information Research Scientists Computer Systems Analysts Information Security Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Web Developers and Digital Designers Computer and Information Research Scientists $140,910 Median SalaryComputer and Information Research Scientists Employment of computer and information research scientists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,200 openings for computer and information research scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Web Developers and Digital Designers $95,380 Median SalaryWeb Developers and Digital Designers Overall employment of web developers and digital designers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for web developers and digital designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Related Programs Artificial Intelligence, MS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Data Science, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit