History, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program History, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty Social Sciences Study the Past to See the FutureAs a history major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll study the past to better understand the present and anticipate the future. Our program emphasizes research and communication skills. You'll learn to critically reconstruct the contexts and meanings of human actions throughout history from a wide range of perspectives–cultural, economic, political, and social–and to identify connections with the present.Where a History Degree Will Take YouYou’ll develop solid intellectual and professional skills that are transferable to a variety of careers. Our graduates have gone on to fulfilling careers in industry, journalism, government, law, publishing, library and information science, K-12 education, higher education, and other fields. The program also provides a strong foundation if you plan to pursue graduate studies in history or other subjects. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Historians Archivists, Curators, and Museum Workers Lawyers Librarians and Library Media Specialists Public Relations Specialists Historians $74,050 Median SalaryHistorians (master’s usually required) Employment of historians is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 300 openings for historians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Archivists, Curators, and Museum Workers $57,100 Median SalaryArchivists, Curators, and Museum Workers Overall employment of archivists, curators, and museum workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,800 openings for archivists, curators, and museum workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Lawyers $151,160 Median SalaryLawyers (law degree required) Employment of lawyers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,500 openings for lawyers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Librarians and Library Media Specialists $64,320 Median SalaryLibrarians and Library Media Specialists (master’s usually required) Employment of librarians and library media specialists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 13,500 openings for librarians and library media specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Dive into the detective work of research.Learn to craft engaging stories. Build evidence-based reasoning through hands-on work with sources.Sharpen your ability to navigate complex information landscapes.Interpret diverse perspectives and connect them to today’s world.You'll delve deep into historical events and dynamics, from America's rich past to global socio-political developments since 1500 CE. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our program emphasizes the practical application of academic learning. We encourage you to get involved in research projects, contribute to seminars and workshops, and participate in collaborative learning exercises. Our goal is to help you learn by doing, further enhancing your competencies and confidence.More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration A minor or concentration consists of 15 credit hours of courses in history (HIST), with a maximum of one course (3-4 credits) at the lower-division level (100-200).Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Courses Online A great benefit with our History program is that you can take all the required courses to complete a History major online. Online History offerings can also be integrated into any regular program of study (for example, the History minor, Middle East Studies certificate and others). Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Join the History Students’ Association, an on-campus group that organizes social and outreach events promoting and supporting history in our community. Join Phi Alpha Theta, a national history honorary society that provides access to scholarships, prizes, conferences, and other resources for training historians. Explore Study Abroad programs. Sign up for MLK Day of Service or Alternative Spring Break. Discover other UM-Dearborn student organizations on VictorsLink.You can help your friends register to vote, participate in an Alternative Spring Break trip, join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs Political Science, BA International Studies, BA African and African American Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit