Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science From Theory to Practical ApplicationsThis graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn introduces the core concepts of intelligent systems and a broad range of techniques for building, testing, and evaluating intelligent systems. It includes plenty of hands-on practice so you can apply your learning to real-world problems.You can take all courses for the 12-credit certificate in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule them in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study Your courses will cover a wide range of topics, including intelligent system design, training and evaluation, decision trees, rule-based systems, Bayesian learning, Support Vector Machines, neural network systems, and fuzzy systems, among others. The courses will be sprinkled with case studies to enhance your learning. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.There are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Operations Research Analysts Computer Systems Analysts Data Scientists Industrial Engineers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Electrical Engineering, MSE Computer Engineering, MSE Robotics Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit