Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering CECS Scholarships College of Engineering and Computer Science Two Degrees Are Better Than OneCombine one of the newest, most specialized branches of engineering with one of the oldest and broadest by pursuing dual degrees in bioengineering and mechanical engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. By integrating bioengineering's cutting-edge applications and mechanical engineering's broad-based principles, this program provides you with a comprehensive knowledge base and a diversity of skills. You earn both degrees at the same time. The combined degrees require 143 credits–just 15 more than you need for either degree alone. You can pick up the additional credits by taking one extra class most semesters or adding a single semester to your program. Both degree programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for specific programs.Where a Bioengineering/Mechanical Engineering Degree Will Take YouGetting two degrees at once puts you ahead of the pack. It shows potential employers that you’re industrious and eager to take on challenges. It also gives you a great foundation for pursuing graduate studies, perhaps in the master’s degree programs in bioengineering or mechanical engineering that we offer here at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Biomedical Engineers Environmental Engineers Materials Engineers Engineering Managers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biomedical Engineers $106,950 Median SalaryBiomedical Engineers Employment of bioengineers and biomedical engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,300 openings for bioengineers and biomedical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Engineers $104,170 Median SalaryEnvironmental Engineers Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,000 openings for environmental engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Engineering Managers $167,740 Median SalaryEngineering Managers Employment of architectural and engineering managers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for architectural and engineering managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Aside from your Dearborn Discovery Core general education courses, your curriculum will have three parts: 18 required prerequisite courses, 14 required core courses, and three to four program electives that you choose from more than four dozen options. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You’ll get hands-on learning experiences, thanks to our numerous state-of-the-art labs and practice-based learning approach. This direct experience with machinery, systems, and bioengineering tactics can be priceless when you enter the job market or opt for advanced studies.More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. The BEME Dual Accelerated Master’s Program How’d you like two bachelor’s degrees AND a master’s degree? The BEME Dual Accelerated Master’s Program lets you complete both bachelor’s degrees and a master’s degree in bioengineering in as little as five years, saving you time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated bachelor’s program can take up to nine credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward your undergraduate and graduate degrees. To be eligible for the master’s option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits in the dual degree program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and meet other requirements. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee UM-Dearborn | CECS | Dual BSE in Mechanical/Bioengineering How to Get Involved You can join the Pi Tau Sigma, Tau Beta Pi, Biomedical Engineering Society, student-led teams, such as Formula SAE, Formula SAE Electric, or MASA (the rocket club) and other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Bioengineering, MSE Mechanical Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Related Programs Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Bioengineering, BSE Mechanical Engineering, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit