Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Engineering Real-World Solutions At the UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, we do more than educate students — we empower visionaries and pioneers to shape the future of engineering. Apply Now Breadcrumb Home College of Engineering and Computer Science The College of Engineering and Computer Science at University of Michigan-Dearborn offers bachelor's, master’s and doctoral degree programs as well as undergraduate and graduate certificate programs. Our programs are taught by faculty who lead classroom discussion and work with industry partners geared toward solving the challenges of the ever-changing global economy. The College of Engineering and Computer Science at University of Michigan-Dearborn offers bachelor's, master’s and doctoral degree programs as well as undergraduate and graduate certificate programs. Our programs are taught by faculty who lead classroom discussion and work with industry partners geared toward solving the challenges of the ever-changing global economy. Majors & Minors Master's & Doctoral Programs Admissions & Aid 3,389 students enrolled2,148 Undergraduates, 1,131 Graduates, 110 DoctoralAcademic Year 2024-2025 38 programs available12 Undergraduate, 20 Masters, 6 DoctoralAcademic Year 2024-2025 A Welcome Message from Interim Dean Zakarian Welcome to the College of Engineering and Computer Science (CECS), where we dedicate ourselves to empowering students, creating opportunities, and fostering groundbreaking innovations. Whether you are a prospective or current student, a visitor, a community member, or an alumnus, I warmly welcome you! Our Partnership with KEENThe University of Michigan–Dearborn is a proud partner of the Kern Entrepreneurial Engineering Network (KEEN). Through hands-on projects and real-world challenges, students build both technical expertise and professional skills. Guided by KEEN’s principles of curiosity, connections, and creating value, our graduates are ready to innovate, lead, and make a meaningful impact in a rapidly evolving world. Learn More Rankings & Recognitions U.S. News & World Report ranked UM-Dearborn #1 Regional Public University in Michigan. U.S. News & World Report ranked UM-Dearborn one of the Best Regional Public Universities in the Midwest. U.S. News & World Report ranked the undergraduate engineering programs (doctorate) and the Computer Science undergraduate degree program rank fifth among public universities in Michigan. CECS News More CECS News 5/2/2026 Congrats, Class of Spring 2026! UM-Dearborn awarded 1,090 degrees during three commencement ceremonies on May 2 — helping U-M reach one million degrees conferred.... 4/22/2026 Class of Spring 2026: CECS graduate Husniyah Alam The computer engineering senior says UM-Dearborn’s academic strength — and supportive campus community — defined her college experience. ... 4/15/2026 Congrats to the CECS and CEHHS Medallion winners Three students from each college are being recognized with top university awards for their outstanding academic achievements, leadership and contributions to the community.... 4/6/2026 AI education research leads to a UM-Dearborn first Industrial and Systems Engineering doctoral student Ella Ejichukwu’s research into how AI affects classroom experiences has led to her induction into the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society — a first for a UM-Dearborn student.... Upcoming Events More Events May 20 Battery and EV Applications Workshop May 20, 2026 10:00 am -1:30 pm Jun 8 CECS IMSE Master's Program Virtual Open House (6.8.26) June 8, 2026 12:00 pm -1:00 pm Jun 9 CECS Mechanical Engineering Department Virtual Open House (6.9.26) June 9, 2026 12:00 pm -1:00 pm More Events