Breadcrumb Home Campus Life Michigan Experience In this section In this section Campus Life Toggle Submenu Michigan Experience Get Involved Housing Health and Wellness Athletics Working and Studying Beyond Campus Michigan Experience When you join the Michigan family, in addition to the world-class education, students may participate in other unique activities exclusive to UM-Dearborn students and activities just 40 miles west in Ann Arbor. Cultural Experiences The Henry FordStudents receive an annual membership to The Henry Ford, which includes the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation and Greenfield Village by showing their UM-Dearborn ID at the ticket window. The Henry Ford Arab American National MuseumStudents receive an annual membership to the Arab American National Museum, which includes unlimited admission to the museum, discounts on public programs, workshops and events, and check out privileges at the Russell J. Ebeid Library & Resource Center, which houses the largest collection of books by and about Arab Americans, by showing your UM-Dearborn ID at the ticket window. Arab American National Museum Fair Lane Music GuildStudents receive free admission to concert performances by the Fair Lane Music Guild, at the Henry Ford Estate on campus, by showing their UM-Dearborn ID at the concerts. Fair Lane Music Guild Music, theater, dance performancesUM-Dearborn students may purchase student priced tickets for performances at university concert and performance venues. UM-Ann Arbor Museum of Art offers FREE admission. UM-Ann Arbor School of Music, Theatre and Dance Events UM-Ann Arbor Museum of Art Sporting Events UM-Dearborn has a competitive athletics program in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics. All students have free access to games, including basketball, hockey, soccer and more. UM-Dearborn students can also enjoy Big Ten competitions in Ann Arbor. Students are eligible to purchase student section tickets for certain sports, including football, men’s basketball and ice hockey.Current students are notified for football ticket purchases, via email, in February. Newly enrolled students are also notified via email, in June, for ticket purchases. UM-Dearborn Athletics Program UM-Ann Arbor Sporting Events Michigan Marching Band UM-Dearborn students are eligible to try out for one of the best bands in the nation, the Michigan Marching Band! Michigan Marching Band Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) UM-Dearborn students are eligible to join ROTC in Ann Arbor. Army ROTC Outdoor Recreation At UM-Dearborn, the Environmental Interpretive Center (EIC) is the gateway to the 120-acre Environmental Student Area. The EIC offers programming and walking trails. UM-Dearborn students can also access outdoor areas in Ann Arbor, including the Matthaei Botanical Gardens with FREE admission. Environmental Interpretive Center (EIC) Matthaei Botanical Gardens Academic Resources New York Times and Wall Street Journal subscriptionsUM-Dearborn students receive free access to both national publications. Staff at the Mardigian Library can assist with subscriptions. LibrariesIn addition to the Mardigian Library, located on UM-Dearborn’s campus, students may access resources at the libraries in Ann Arbor. Mardigian Library University of Michigan Library ResearchIn addition to strong research opportunities on the Dearborn campus, UM-Dearborn students are eligible to participate in research opportunities with UM-Ann Arbor faculty and researchers. Students need to apply for these positions and be selected by the faculty or research team. UM-Dearborn faculty can help facilitate these connections. Social Additional Student Societies and ClubsIn addition to nearly 150 student organizations and clubs on the Dearborn campus, students may be eligible to participate in additional clubs on the Ann Arbor campus. If there is an organization or club that you are interested in, please reach out to inquire about participation. UM-Dearborn Student Organizations UM-Ann Arbor Student Organizations After GraduationAfter you earn your Michigan degree, you are eligible to join one of the largest and most engaged alumni associations in the world. Join the over 650,000 strong proud Wolverines as you begin your careers and stay connected to the university. Alumni Association