Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Information Systems Management, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Information Systems Management, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Harness the Power of Computers for BusinessComputerized information systems are pivotal to the success of any modern business, making demand high for professionals who can integrate and manage them. At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, our curriculum combines classroom instruction, case studies, projects, and hands-on learning to give you a strong foundation in all of the components of computer-based information systems: hardware, software, telecommunications, databases, people, and procedures.Where an Information Systems Management Major Will Take YouYour degree in information systems management from UM-Dearborn will prepare you for a variety of roles in system development, system analysis, database administration, and networking across a wide range of businesses and industries. You’ll also be ready to assume progressively higher managerial roles as your career advances. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Systems Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Information Security Analysts Computer and Information Systems Managers Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer and Information Systems Managers $171,200 Median SalaryComputer and Information Systems Managers Employment of computer and information systems managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 55,600 openings for computer and information systems managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your program will include 29 credits in BBA prerequisites and 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, giving you a broad background in general business topics such as accounting, business writing, economics, business statistics, project management and leadership, corporate responsibility, strategic management, corporate finance, business law, and marketing, among other subjects.Your 21-credit major consists of five required courses and two electives you choose from six options. The required courses cover subjects such as programming of business applications, database systems, and networking and collaborative computing.You have the option to pursue a concentration in information systems security. This 21-credit major consists of seven required courses. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain At UM-Dearborn, hands-on projects and case studies are integral parts of our curriculum, providing you the opportunity to apply your learning in real-life situations. You also can get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, study abroad in Italy or Taiwan, assist with real-world research at our iLabs research institute, and more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The 15-credit minor consists of three required courses and two electives you choose from seven options. Explore Minor Requirements Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You’ll have all kinds of opportunities to learn, network, and make friends outside the classroom at UM-Dearborn. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Programs Offered Beyond BBA Information Systems, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Related Programs Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Data Science, BS Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit