Pathway to Child Life Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Pathway to Child Life Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Help Children, Families Face Health ChallengesStudents who become certified as child life specialists work in health care settings to assist children and their families in navigating and coping with the stressful experiences of hospitalization, illness, and disability. The 10-course Pathway to Child Life curriculum at UM-Dearborn helps students prepare to take the certification exam from the Association of Child Life Professionals (ACLP).Where a Pathway to Child Life Certification Will Take YouCertification prepares you to work in a range of settings, from pediatric units to surgical theaters to rehabilitation centers. You also can pursue certification in applied behavior analysis, opening even more career prospects in supporting children and families with various social, behavioral, academic, and adaptive behavior needs. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Recreational Therapist Social Worker Preschool and Childcare Center Director Recreational Therapist $60,280 Median SalaryRecreational Therapist Employment of recreational therapists is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,300 openings for recreational therapists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Worker $61,330 Median SalarySocial Worker Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Preschool and Childcare Center Director $56,270 Median SalaryPreschool and Childcare Center Director Employment of preschool and childcare center directors is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 5,500 openings for preschool and childcare center directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The Pathway to Child Life curriculum brings together the worlds of child development and health, arming you with the ability to engage with and support children and their families effectively. Your courses cover topics like working with children in health care settings, child development, therapeutic play, and death, dying and bereavement. Course Requirements Seven courses are required:HHS 425, Work with Child in Health SettingEDC 240, Psych of Child Development: Birth-18 yearsEDC 440, The Developing Child: Birth to ThreeSOC 445, The FamilyHHS 305, Intro to Therapeutic PlayHHS 325, Death, Dying, & BereavementHHS 410, Quantitative Research & StatisticsTo finish your credit requirements, you will choose three additional courses from this list:BIOL 103, Anatomy & Physiology IBIOL 105, Anatomy & Physiology IIEDC 414, Early Childhood Special NeedsEDC 439, Child Maltreatment & TraumaEDC 446, Cognitive/Memory Development in ChildrenEDC 460, Educating the Exceptional ChildHHS 312, Family Preservation & RecoveryHHS 380, Religion, Medicine, and HealthPSYC 455, Health Psychology Earn a Certificate in Child Life Completion of the courses does not earn a certificate, but prepares you to take the certification exam through the ACLP. Students are required to earn an undergraduate degree in any field and take the 10 courses offered in the Pathway to Child Life curriculum. We recommend that students seeking certification pursue the Bachelor of Arts in children and families or the Bachelor of Science in health and human services with a human services concentration. These two majors have the most overlap with the 10 required courses. Ready To Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator