Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Finance, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Finance, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Finance 4+1 Financial Analytics 4+1 Choose Your Own PathA finance degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you for a wide variety of careers in business, government, and nonprofit organizations. You can supervise the preparation of financial reports for a corporation, manage risks for a bank, help individuals make sound investments, prepare mortgage loans for consumers, and much more with the knowledge and skills you’ll learn.Where a Finance Major Will Take YouYour finance degree opens the door to a robust range of careers in investment management, capital management, banking, corporate finance, personal finance, and related areas. It also will help you prepare for professional examinations such as Chartered Financial Analysts, Certified Financial Management, and Certified Financial Planning. And it serves as an excellent foundation for pursuing graduate studies, such as in the finance master’s degree or MBA programs we offer at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents Accountants and Auditors Personal Financial Advisors Financial Analysts Financial Managers Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents $78,140 Median SalarySecurities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents Employment of securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 38,100 openings for securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Accountants and Auditors $81,680 Median SalaryAccountants and Auditors Employment of accountants and auditors is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 124,200 openings for accountants and auditors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Personal Financial Advisors $102,140 Median SalaryPersonal Financial Advisors Employment of personal financial advisors is projected to grow 10 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 24,100 openings for personal financial advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Managers $161,700 Median SalaryFinancial Managers Employment of financial managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,600 openings for financial managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The required courses in your 120-credit degree consist of the Dearborn Discovery Core general education courses, a course in critical thinking, 29 credits of BBA prerequisites, 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, and 21 credits in your finance major. While you’re welcome to pursue a general finance major (without concentration) where you choose most of your courses, you have the option to choose one of two concentrations instead:The Financial Management concentration prepares students for a career in which they help organizations develop and implement their financial strategy and tactics. Financial managers in corporations, governments, and organizations usually supervise the preparation of financial reports, guide investment activities, and execute cash-management strategies. Potential job positions include controller, treasurer, credit management, cash management, and risk management.The Financial Services concentration helps prepare students to pursue careers in the banking industry and financial/investment services. These are generally careers that are client based, although your firm’s clients may be individuals, businesses, or institutions. Potential job positions include financial analyst, credit analyst, portfolio management, loan officer, mortgage banker, financial advisor, and financial planner. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Your courses will emphasize hands-on, real-world learning. You also can analyze a vast amount of real-time market data in the Bloomberg Finance Lab, study abroad in Italy or Taiwan, get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, help conduct real-world research at our iLabs research institute, help your fellow students become more effective business communicators as a consultant at the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Requirements for Minor Two 15-credit minors are available:The finance minor requires four prerequisite courses. It consists of three required courses and two electives you choose from seven options.The financial planning minor requires four prerequisite courses. It consists of four required courses and one elective you choose from three options. Explore Minor Requirements Fast-Track Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees with a 4+1 Program Finance Majors: Accelerate Your Path to a Master’s DegreeUM-Dearborn finance majors can earn both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in just five years through our Finance 4+1 and Financial Analytics 4+1 programs. These accelerated options allow you to complete either the Master of Science in Finance or the Master of Science in Financial Analytics with significant savings in both time and cost.Students may double-count up to five graduate-level marketing courses toward their undergraduate degree. Not only do you save the time associated with completing five graduate courses, but you also pay the undergraduate tuition rate for those same graduate courses. Students who continue on to complete the master’s program can save approximately $17,000, based on part-time enrollment at resident tuition rates. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved UM-Dearborn offers all kinds of opportunities outside the classroom. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include Alpha Kappa Psi, American Marketing Association, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Society for Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Programs Offered Beyond BBA Finance, MS Financial Analytics, MS Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Related Programs Accounting, BBA General Business, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit