Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Gain Skills That Augment Your MajorPlace-based technologies are ubiquitous, from location services on smartphones to spatial-decision support systems that guide applications in business, government, transportation, and many other fields. Because of the broad use of geospatial technology across a variety of disciplines and fields, students with diverse backgrounds and interests can increase their marketability with a certificate in geospatial analysis and mapping from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.We offer most certificate courses in the evening, and some are hybrid with lectures online and laboratory sessions on campus. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Cartographers and Photogrammetrists Surveyors Geographers Civil Engineers Urban and Regional Planners Cartographers and Photogrammetrists $78,380 Median SalaryCartographers and Photogrammetrists Employment of cartographers and photogrammetrists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,000 openings for cartographers and photogrammetrists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Surveyors $72,740 Median SalarySurveyors Employment of surveyors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,900 openings for surveyors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Geographers $97,200 Median SalaryGeographers Employment of geographers is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 100 openings for geographers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Civil Engineers $99,590 Median SalaryCivil Engineers Employment of civil engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,600 openings for civil engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Urban and Regional Planners $83,720 Median SalaryUrban and Regional Planners Employment of urban and regional planners is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,400 openings for urban and regional planners are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our program focuses on real-life application of geospatial technologies. Your courses will be hands-on, teaching you to use the technology and how to understand, manage, interpret, and effectively present geospatial data. You’ll work with the latest technology in our state-of-the-art Geospatial Analysis and Mapping Laboratory, and you’ll finish the program with a portfolio of deliverables that demonstrate your newly acquired technical and critical thinking skills. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Environmental Science, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit