Admissions & Aid Request More Information Breadcrumb Home Admissions & Aid Making College Affordable and AccessibleFind out all you need to know about applying to UM-Dearborn and learn more about our commitment to affordability. Why UM-Dearborn? With small classes, a supportive community and flexible options to help you balance school, work and life, we offer a top-ranked education that prepares you for success. Here are just a few of the things that make the UM-Dearborn experience one you won’t find anywhere else. Top-Ranked University U.S. News & World Report has consistently named UM-Dearborn one of the best regional public universities in the Midwest. Apply Now A Michigan Degree You’ll get the power of a Michigan degree while studying and researching with faculty who truly get to know you. Apply Now Practice-Based Learning You’ll gain practical knowledge, elevate your skill set for the real world and establish career-launching connections. Apply Now The Michigan Experience You’ll have access to UM-Ann Arbor sporting events, student clubs, research opportunities and more. Apply Now Student Type? Undergraduate (Degree-Seeking) First-year or transfer student interested in a bachelor's degree at UM-Dearborn. Undergraduate (Non-Degree) Dual enrollment, guest admission, certificates and other programs not seeking a bachelor's degree. Graduate (Degree-Seeking) Master’s, specialist, or doctoral program as a degree-seeking graduate student. Graduate (Non-Degree) Guest, certificate student, or non-candidate for a degree. Costs and Aid Undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee — University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from low-income backgrounds. In addition to the Go Blue Guarantee, we have comprehensive financial aid offerings that put a Michigan degree within reach for all Dearborn Wolverines. Paying for College Scholarships Cost of Attendance Apply for Financial Aid Undergraduate Net Price Calculator Graduate Tuition and Funding Explore Campus In Person or Online Want to experience UM‑Dearborn firsthand? Check out our Campus Visits & Events and book your visit now. Plan a Visit Admissions Events Apr 11 Spring Open House April 11, 2026 9:30 am -1:00 pm Apr 13 Main Campus Tour April 13, 2026 3:00 pm -4:30 pm Apr 13 Virtual Transfer Information Session April 13, 2026 6:00 pm -7:00 pm More Admissions Events Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Request Information Apply