Computer Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer Engineering, MSE ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Get the Advanced Skills Employers ValueIf you want advanced skills in designing, developing, and integrating computer hardware and software, you can get them in the computer engineering master’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses will provide plenty of hands-on experience with computers, high-performance workstations, and other microprocessor-based systems.Our Electrical and Computer Engineering department consists of more than 20 exceptional full-time tenured or tenure-track faculty, These professionals conduct research in critical areas like artificial intelligence, machine learning, computer networking systems, cybersecurity, and data science, among others. As a graduate student, you’ll have the potential to actively contribute to their research for organizations like the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, IBM, Ford, Microsoft, and Amazon.You can take classes in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule all classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where a MSE in Computer Engineering Will Take YouYour Master of Science in Engineering in Computer Engineering from UM-Dearborn will equip you with the advanced skills and knowledge sought by employers. You’ll be prepared for challenging and rewarding roles in established technology companies, start-ups, industry, public organizations, research laboratories, and more. The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts there will be extraordinary growth in lucrative computer engineering occupations over the next decade. Program Details What You’ll Study The program provides remarkable flexibility, giving you the opportunity to tailor it to your personal interests and professional goals. Only a core course in embedded systems is required, and you choose two other core courses from options in computer networks, computer architecture, reconfigurable computing, and advanced operating systems. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Practice-based learning is a critical component of our computer engineering program. You’ll work with the latest computers, high-performance workstations, and other microprocessor-based systems, along with an extensive selection of software. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of real-world opportunities. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Online Options The Computer Engineering program is also offered online through CECS Online. The online courses utilize video streaming of the lectures given on campus. The online students have the opportunity to interact with the instructors and with fellow students (both on campus as well as online) through CANVAS. The class lectures, notes, and discussions are posted on CANVAS for online students' access. Admission Requirements Bachelor's degree in Electrical and/or Computer Engineering with an overall GPA of 3.0 or higherStudents whose undergraduate background is in a field other than Electrical or Computer Engineering may be granted admission and required to take preparatory courses in electrical and/or computer engineering.GRE not requiredLetters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer Hardware Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Network Architects Computer Systems Analysts Computer Hardware Engineers $155,020 Median SalaryComputer Hardware Engineers Employment of computer hardware engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,700 openings for computer hardware engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. MSE in Computer Engineering Here you are able to apply theory right away in practice. NEVRUS KAJA, MSE IN COMPUTER ENGINEERING, '16 Programs Offered Beyond MSE Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Computer and Information Science, PhD Related Programs Electrical Engineering, MSE Robotics Engineering, MSE Computer and Information Science, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit