Political Science, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Political Science, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Social Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters From Urban Politics to the Israeli-Palestinian ConflictPolitical science is about power: who has it, how they use it, how they retain it, and how they respond to efforts to wrest it away. It explores the complexities of political systems, behaviors, and ideologies along with some of today’s hottest topics: Should women have the right to get an abortion? How does society keep police officers accountable? What should the United States do to protect democracy at home and advance human rights abroad? When will political leaders take meaningful action on climate change?As a political science major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll study three broad areas:American politics (including political institutions, behavior, and public policy)Global politics (including comparative politics and international relations)Political theoryWhere a Political Science Degree Will Take YouA political science degree from UM-Dearborn opens a broad swath of potential career paths. It prepares you for careers in public administration, public policy analysis, lobbying, journalism, political consulting, law, and elected office at the local, state, and federal levels as well as careers in education. It also lays the groundwork for graduate studies leading to teaching, research, or administrative positions at the university level. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Political Scientists Public Relations Specialists Survey Researchers Management Analysts News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists (master’s usually required) Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Survey Researchers $63,380 Median SalarySurvey Researchers (master’s usually required) Employment of survey researchers is projected to decline 5 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 700 openings for survey researchers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Management Analysts $101,190 Median SalaryManagement Analysts Employment of management analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 98,100 openings for management analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The political science program offers a robust and dynamic curriculum designed to provide students with a thorough understanding of political systems, theories, and practices. Core courses include American Politics (POL 101), which examines the student and function of the U.S. political system; Political Analysis (POl 300), which equips students with essential skills for analyzing data; and a Capstone in Political Science (POL 4910), where students apply their knowledge to a comprehensive research project. In addition, students take courses within three concentrations: American Politics, Political Theory, and Global Politics along with selecting courses from a variety of other concentrations which include more than 50 options that cover subjects such as the American legislative process, state government, the presidency, Michigan government, urban politics, environmental politics, political parties and elections, organizing and leadership, civil rights and liberties, revitalizing cities, political ideologies, modern political theory, religion and politics, American foreign policy, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and terrorism and national security, among many others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You will gain a deep understanding of both historical and contemporary political concepts and theories. The curriculum also emphasizes critical thinking and political analysis skills which will enable you to rigorously examine arguments, assumptions, and evidence using both quantitative and qualitative methods. In addition, the program emphasizes the importance of political engagement, preparing you to actively participate in local, state, national, and global citizenship while understanding the implications of your involvement in the political world. More hands-on experiences are available in our PBL courses, internship, research, and study abroad programs, including the Ottawa Internship. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in political science (POL).Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Narissa Ayoub How to Get Involved You can help your friends register to vote, join the UM-Dearborn Political Science Association, participate in an Alternative Spring Break trip, check out any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs Nonprofit and Public Service Leadership, Minor/Concentration Urban and Regional Studies, BA International Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit