Engineering Management, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Engineering Management, MS IMSE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5361(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn How to Manage EngineersOur master’s degree program at UM-Dearborn integrates the technical and management aspects of engineering, providing students with a holistic understanding of their roles as future engineering managers. Even if you have a graduate degree in engineering, you’ll find that pursuing the master’s in engineering management will give you even greater mastery of both technology and the principles of management.You can take classes for the 35-credit degree in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where an M.S. in Engineering Management Will Take YouA master’s degree in engineering management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn opens doors to a variety of roles in both technical and management areas. The program is designed to prepare you to manage small and large groups of engineers. Graduates can take on positions as project managers, systems engineers, or operation directors in a range of industries. Program Details What You’ll Study You’ll learn about the core management areas vital for a technical manager: marketing, accounting, organizational behavior, business ethics and law, and finance, among others. The courses also will give you a robust understanding of topics common to all engineering disciplines like systems engineering, total quality management, production management, and management of product/process design.The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain We believe in practice-based learning. You will get the chance to apply your academic learning to practical, real-life solutions. More opportunities for hands-on experiences is available in our research programs. Check out the page for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admission Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree in engineering or a degree in math, computer science, or a physical science coupled with at least two years of experience in engineering after completing your bachelor’s degree.All applicants also must have a calculus-based course in probability and statistics. If you haven’t taken one, you can do so after admission into the program.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Architectural and Engineering Managers Industrial Production Managers Construction Managers Operations Research Analysts Logisticians Architectural and Engineering Managers $167,740 Median SalaryArchitectural and Engineering Managers Employment of architectural and engineering managers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for architectural and engineering managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Construction Managers $106,980 Median SalaryConstruction Managers Employment of construction managers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 46,800 openings for construction managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Logisticians $80,880 Median SalaryLogisticians Employment of logisticians is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 26,400 openings for logisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. MS in Engineering Management The program is designed to help the students to prepare themselves, to manage small and large groups of engineers. Dr. Armen Zakarian, Vice Provost for Research and Dean of Graduate Studies; Professor, Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering How Can I Get Involved? You can get experience as a graduate student instructor or research assistant. You also can join the Society of Women Engineers, the Institute of Industrial Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Intelligent Systems Club, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Related Programs Program and Project Management, MS Mechanical Engineering, MSE Electrical Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit