International Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program International Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Social Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Customize Your DegreeCombine intense study of a foreign language and culture with preparation in your choice of professions in our flexible international studies program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. We consulted officers of multinational corporations in Detroit to create the program, which is designed to meet their need for employees with solid professional backgrounds and knowledge of other cultures, languages, and economic systems.International studies also is a great second major. In many cases, courses you take for your first major will also fulfill the “professional studies” component of the international studies major, allowing you to count the courses toward both degrees.Where an International Studies Degree Will Take YouA degree in international studies at UM-Dearborn opens a world of opportunities, whether you plan to work in the United States or abroad. It can qualify you to work in fields such as business, government, travel and tourism, journalism, education, and science and engineering, among many others. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Political Scientists Economists Interpreters and Translators Urban and Regional Planners Geographers Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists (master’s usually required) Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Economists $115,440 Median SalaryEconomists (master’s usually required) Employment of economists is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 900 openings for economists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Urban and Regional Planners $83,720 Median SalaryUrban and Regional Planners (usually requires a master’s) Employment of urban and regional planners is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,400 openings for urban and regional planners are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Geographers $97,200 Median SalaryGeographers Employment of geographers is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 100 openings for geographers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You customize your program based on your personal interests and professional goals. The international studies degree has three components that all consist of upper-level courses:Foreign language and culture: Twenty credits of advanced courses in Arabic, French, or Spanish.Professional studies: Fifteen to 18 credits of courses in one of the following fields:Business and managementComputer and information scienceEconomicsMuseum studiesPolitical science (international affairs)Environmental studiesNatural sciencesEngineeringCommunicationJournalism and media productionHistoryCognates: Nine credits of courses to round out your degree that you choose from an approved list of more than 125 options. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Practical experience is an essential aspect of our international studies program. We encourage you to participate in UM-Dearborn’s study abroad program, which helps you progress quickly in language learning while also gaining firsthand knowledge of a different culture. We also recommend that you complete an internship that allows you to use the knowledge you’ve gained in an actual professional setting.Students will learn:Critical thinking: Students will be able to critically analyze academic texts, international news, maps, histories and their own received ideologies.Applying disciplinary contexts: Students will understand how to use background, geographical context, political information, economic systems, etc.Connections: Students will begin to see the connections between world events and the multiple contexts that inform them.Skills: Students develop core liberal arts skills: reading unfamiliar information and making sense of it; thinking critically about what they read.Global awareness: Students develop knowledge, skills, and attributes needed to live in a world characterized by ethnic diversity and cultural breath. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee You're not only learning a language, but also professional aspects like political science, communication. DANIELA GIRALDO, INTERNATIONAL STUDIES (SPANISH CONCENTRATION) How to Get Involved You can join student organizations like La Mezcla (Spanish Club), the French Club, or the Arabic Language and Culture Club; participate in events at the UM-Dearborn Center for Arab American Studies; participate in a variety of community outreach activities; check out the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus; and much more. Related Programs Arabic Studies, BA French Studies, BA Hispanic Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit