Breadcrumb Home Office of International Affairs Study Abroad In this section In this section Office of International Affairs Toggle Submenu Incoming International Students: Prepare to arrive Toggle Submenu Health insurance Online Enrollment for International Students Visa Interview Guidance Incoming International Students: When you arrive Current International Students Toggle Submenu Work as an international student Toggle Submenu Curricular Practical Training (CPT) International Student Employment Outcomes Get immigration & visa support Transferring Your SEVIS Record Optional Practical Training (OPT) Toggle Submenu Applying for Optional Practical Training After You Have Applied for Optional Practical Training While You Are On Optional Practical Training OPT Stem Extension CAP GAP Travel and Re-Entry to the U.S. while on OPT STEM-designated Program List for F-1 Students Exchange Visitors (J-1) Study Abroad Contact Us Forms Toggle Submenu OPT Stem Change Employer (Optional Practical Training) Local Transportation Important Updates Study Abroad Visit Our Online Study Abroad Portal M-Navigator is our online study abroad portal with up-to-date program information and applications. Click the link below to enter the site. M-Navigator Change your perspective with Study Abroad!When you study in another country, you are immersed in a new culture and become globally literate, while at the same time earning credit towards your degree. Whether you are interested in a cultural experience, or want to develop marketable job skills, or are simply seeking to earn credits outside of a campus classroom, you can find a program to fit your needs. Featured Programs France: Sites of Memory France: Sites of MemoryFrench 340 will take us on a magical journey through the most important sites of France’s cultural memory, bringing France’s history and civilization alive. Future Cities Live (Amsterdam and Berlin) Future Cities Live (Amsterdam and Berlin)Future Cities Live will take us to two European cities that are leaders in urban sustainability: Amsterdam in the Netherlands and Berlin in Germany. Medicinal and Aromatic Plants in Cultural Practices (Italy) Medicinal and Aromatic Plants in Cultural Practices (Italy)Learn about medicinal and aromatic plants and their uses in an ancient Italian garden. International Summer Program in Management (ISPM-Italy) International Summer Program in Management (ISPM-Italy)Study business at the University of Padua, where Copernicus and Galileo lectured. Ottawa Internship Ottawa InternshipThe Ottawa Internship Program is designed to provide a first-hand experience in Canadian government through placement with a Member of Parliament or Senator. Funding study abroadWe have created a Study Abroad Financial Aid Overview with information on the different pools of funding available to help you pay for your study abroad program. Learn moreWe are happy to meet virtually or in person. Please complete this Appointment Request Form, and a member of the Study Abroad Team will reach out to you. For questions, email [email protected]. Office of International Affairs 2106 - James C. Renick University Center 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-583-6600 Fax: 313-583-6725 [email protected]