Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) CASL Graduate Programs draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Meet the MPAP Faculty MPAP Courses Department of Social Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Boost Your Career With the Master of Public Administration and Policy DegreeAre you a professional in government or the nonprofit sector looking to advance your career? The Master of Public Administration and Policy program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is designed just for you! Our program uniquely integrates public policy into the curriculum, offering you specialized skills and knowledge that are crucial for career advancement. Top-notch faculty are ready to help you learn and develop the needed skills in leadership, policy analysis, public relations, financial management, program evaluation and other critical areas essential to propel your career. You will engage with your fellow professionals, share valuable experiences, and refine your skills in working with diverse teams. The Master of Public Administration and Policy conveniently schedules its courses to accommodate full-time jobs. Employees of Michigan Nonprofit Association member organizations are eligible for a scholarship that pays 20 percent of their tuition and fees.Where the Master of Public Administration and Policy Degree Will Take YouThe Master of Public Administration and Policy degree can lead to varied career paths in governmental agencies, nonprofit organizations, and businesses that interact with public administrators. It’s also a great foundation for additional studies leading to a Ph.D. or other advanced credential. Program Details What You’ll Study The 36-credit curriculum consists of 18 credits of required core courses, 15 credits of electives, and a three-credit capstone seminar taken at the end of the program. You have the option to choose 12 or more credits from core and elective courses to fulfill one of three concentrations:Public PolicyHuman ResourcesEvaluation and Assessment Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Decision-Making to apply critical thinking skills to make decisions that enhance performance of governmental and nonprofit organizations or improve public policy and reflect awareness of key elements in these organizations’ external and internal environmentsHuman Resource Management to effectively manage human resources within governmental and nonprofit organizationsFinancial Resource Management to effectively manage financial resources of governmental and nonprofit organizationsLeadership to understand and exhibit behaviors that enable effective leadership of governmental and nonprofit organizationsEffective Communication to communicate proficiently orally and in writing in a manner that facilitates shared understanding, growth, and high performanceEthical Standards to act in a manner that exemplifies professional ethical standards for governmental and nonprofit administrationAppreciation for Diversity to demonstrate respect for the diverse cultures, values, and perspectives in society in the development, administration, and provision of public servicesEquity to uphold professional standards of equity in the development, administration, and provision of public servicesTheory-Practice Links to appreciate the role of political, administrative, policy, and organization theory in understanding and structuring practice in public and nonprofit administration and a continuously strive to improve practice through the application of theoryOur seminars are designed to accommodate full-time jobs, allowing you to learn while gaining real-world experience in your field. You’ll get to implement what you learn in real time, witnessing first-hand how the theories and principles can be applied in practical scenarios.More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Take Advantage of our 4+1 Program! Interested in obtaining your undergraduate degree along with a master’s? Take advantage of our 4+1 program where you can obtain two degrees in a streamlined and efficient timeframe which will save you tuition dollars along the way! This accelerated program will not only save you time and money but will also equip you with vital career skills. You will gain knowledge and expertise in policy development and implementation, as well as leadership, personnel, strategic management, fundraising, and program evaluation, preparing you to make a meaningful impact in government, non-profit organizations, and other public service sectors.Students from majors in political science, economics, history, criminal justice, and sociology will likely find our 4+1 program particularly advantageous for their careers. By integrating their undergraduate expertise with specialized training in public administration and policy, students will be well-equipped to address complex problems and drive meaningful change in public and nonprofit organizations.The accelerated master’s program opens doors to a diverse range of careers in public and nonprofit service along with providing valuable internship opportunities with relevant organizations. By joining this outstanding program in Public Administration and Policy you will be opening doors to a wide range of career opportunities by enhancing your competitiveness in the job market and benefit from an extensive network of alumni who offer valuable connections to help advance your career. Applying to the 4+1/Accelerated option is a two-stage process coordinated with both your undergraduate and graduate advising teams. For detailed instructions and application links, please visit the central 4+1 programs webpage. Explore 4+1 Program Requirements Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree from an accredited program. You should include the following with your application:A statement of purpose describing your personal history, educational and professional goals, and objectives in pursuing the program Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Political Scientists Urban and Regional Planners Budget Analysts Social and Community Service Managers Human Resources Managers Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Urban and Regional Planners $83,720 Median SalaryUrban and Regional Planners Employment of urban and regional planners is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,400 openings for urban and regional planners are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Budget Analysts $87,930 Median SalaryBudget Analysts Employment of budget analysts is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 3,100 openings for budget analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social and Community Service Managers $78,240 Median SalarySocial and Community Service Managers Employment of social and community service managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,600 openings for social and community service managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. How to Get Involved Get involved by attending guest lectures, workshops, and seminars that enhance your academic experience and provide opportunities to network with professionals in public policy and administration. And be sure to check out the more than 150 student organizations at UM-Dearborn devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit