English Language and Linguistics, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program English Language and Linguistics, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore English and its Worldwide ImpactLearn how the English language works, how it’s used throughout the world, and how it shapes people and places in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses will provide you with a focused understanding of the structure of English based on its sound system, grammar, meaning, and vocabulary, while also exploring how the spread of English contributes to language contact, urbanization, globalization, multilingualism, and more.The certificate is a valuable addition to any degree, offering competitive marketability upon graduation. Our graduates work in various professions, from business to academia, leveraging their linguistic skills and knowledge to succeed in their chosen fields. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Editors Writers and Authors News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Public Relations Specialists Technical Writers Editors $75,260 Median SalaryEditors Employment of editors is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 9,800 openings for editors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Technical Writers $91,670 Median SalaryTechnical Writers Employment of technical writers is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 4,500 openings for technical writers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The 12-credit certificate offers great flexibility, requiring only one course. You choose the remaining courses from two small groups. The electives cover subjects like modern English grammar, history of the English language, world Englishes, language and gender, and language diversity in southeastern Michigan, among others.Students will learn how to:Demonstrate and utilize a focused understanding of the structure of the English language (in terms of its sound system, grammar, meaning, and vocabulary). Show understanding and awareness of how the spread of English contributes to language contact, urbanization, globalization, multilingualism, and many other aspects of language and society.Explain the contribution of different aspects of the English language to identity formation.Display sensitivity toward cultural forms and markers in language use. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs English, BA Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Linguistics, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit