Data Science, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Data Science, MS CIS Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science 4+1 Accelerated Masters Options Profit From the Growing Demand for Data Science ProfessionalsIf you need convincing that data science is a booming field, consider this statistic: employment of data scientists is projected to grow 35 percent over the coming decade, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. That compares to an average 3 percent growth for all occupations.The demand for sophisticated data analysis is exploding in business, industries, government, health care, nonprofit organizations, and elsewhere. Our Master of Science in Data Science at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides the advanced knowledge and skills you need to excel in this exciting and challenging field.You can complete the program fully online, in person, or a combination of both. We schedule all courses during late afternoons and evenings, making them convenient for part-time students who work.Where a MS in Data Science Degree Will Take YouOur interdisciplinary curriculum, which integrates areas like mathematics, statistics, computer science, and information science, provides you with a diverse and comprehensive foundation on which to build your career. With data driving decisions in so many fields, the opportunities for data analysts, business intelligence analysts, data architects, data scientists, and related professionals are vast and growing. Program Details What You’ll Study You have tremendous flexibility to tailor the 30-credit program to your personal interests and professional needs. The program includes 18 hours of core courses, but only one is required. For the remainder, you choose one course from each of five groups.The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our MS in Data Science program emphasizes learning by doing. You'll have the opportunity to work on real-world projects and be exposed to complex data analytics problems. You will have the opportunity to collaborate with our expert faculty on research funded by esteemed sponsors like the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, IBM, and Ford Motor Company. Admission Requirements Bachelor degree in a Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics (STEM) field earned from an accredited program with an average of B or better.Completed one course in probability and statistics, one course in programming, and one course in calculus II. ProgrammingCIS 200/CIS 2001 (or equivalent) requiredMathematicsMATH 116 (or equivalent) requiredMATH 215 (or equivalent) recommendedMATH 227 (or equivalent) recommendedStatistics (one of these or equivalent required)IMSE 317STAT 325MATH 425A course in calculus III and a course in linear algebra are recommended but not required. GRE not required.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mathematicians and Statisticians Data Scientists Database Administrators and Architects Operations Research Analysts Computer and Information Research Scientists Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer and Information Research Scientists $140,910 Median SalaryComputer and Information Research Scientists Employment of computer and information research scientists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,200 openings for computer and information research scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Related Programs Artificial Intelligence, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Software Engineering, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit