Breadcrumb Home About UM-Dearborn Visit Campus Maps and Directions In this section In this section About Toggle Submenu Mission University History Toggle Submenu University Symbols Leadership Visit Campus Toggle Submenu Maps and Directions Parking & Transportation Accreditations Facts and Figures Economic Impact Maps and Directions We welcome visitors to campus year round. Use these maps and directions from your location to University of Michigan-Dearborn.Northbound Evergreen Road closed at Michigan AveNorthbound Evergreen Road is closed to traffic from Michigan Avenue as part of ongoing bridge repair work. All UM-Dearborn traffic coming from Michigan Avenue (westbound and eastbound) will be detoured to M-39 (Southfield Service Drives). From there, drivers will be directed west on Hubbard Dr, then south on Evergreen Road. This project is expected to be completed in summer 2026. Please give yourself the extra time to navigate the construction and detours. Illustrated Campus Map includes construction information Main Campus Google Map Fairlane Center Campus Google Map Additional Maps Gender Neutral Bathroom, Reflection and Lactation Room Map Bike Route Map Getting to Campus From the west Take I-94 east to Southfield (M-39) and exit north. Follow Southfield to Michigan Ave. (U.S. 12) and exit west. Take Michigan Ave. west to Evergreen. Turn right, merging into traffic from the east. Follow Evergreen past Hubbard Road and turn left around the island. Move immediately into the right lane and turn right into the northern entrance of the campus. From the east Take I-94 west to Michigan Ave. (U.S. 12) and exit west. Take Michigan Ave. to Evergreen. Turn right, merging into traffic from the east. Follow Evergreen past Hubbard Road and turn left around the island. Move immediately into the right lane and turn right into the northern entrance of the campus. From the south Take Southfield (M-39) north to Michigan Ave. (U.S. 12) and exit west. Take Michigan Ave. to Evergreen. Turn right, merging into traffic from the east. Follow Evergreen past Hubbard Road and turn left around the island. Move immediately into the right lane and turn right into the northern entrance of the campus. From the north Take Southfield (M-39) south to Ford Road (M-153) and exit west. Follow Ford Road about one mile to Evergreen Road and go south. We are on the west (right) side of the road, immediately south of Henry Ford College. Fairlane Center Buildings The Fairlane Center buildings, Fairlane Center North (FCN) and Fairlane Center South (FCS), are located at 19000 Hubbard Drive, just East of campus. University of Michigan-DearbornAddress4901 Evergreen Road, Dearborn, Michigan 48128 (map)