Parking and Transportation Campus Parking and Transportation Services Breadcrumb Home About UM-Dearborn Visit Campus Parking and Transportation In this section In this section Parking and Transportation Toggle Submenu Faculty/Staff Permit Parking Student Parking Visitor Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Shuttle Service Zipcar MissionThe mission of Parking Services is to use its expertise and resources to meet the parking needs of UM-Dearborn students, visitors, faculty, and staff.Our experienced staff organizes and provides services pertaining to campus parking lots, structures, parking permits, electric vehicle charging, and shuttle services. We assure that the University of Michigan-Dearborn offers transportation accommodations that are accessible, convenient, and secure for students, faculty, staff, and visitors. Parking Policy Faculty, staff, and students must park in permit designated spaces only. Faculty, students, and staff are not considered visitors. They cannot use visitor parking spaces. Pay-to-park visitor spaces are strictly reserved for off-campus visitors. Violators will be ticketed. Refer to the Parking Manual for additional Parking Policy information. Dear University of Michigan-­Dearborn Community,Safety and accessibility are a top priority on our campus. With that understanding, there are some items we would like to share as we welcome you to the campus:All student, faculty, and staff vehicles must have parking permits. Permits are required in all student lots from 7 am to 7 pm Monday­ - Thursday. Permits are required in all faculty/staff lots from 7 am to 7 pm Monday - Thursday and Fridays from 7:30am-4:00pmThere is no additional charge for the parking permits.No parking fee or permit is required on Fridays in student lots, visitor lots, weekends or university observed holidays. To ensure continued access and flow for all community members, vehicles that are improperly parked are subject to being ticketed.Visitors must park in designated visitor parking. Faculty, staff or students are not permitted to park in visitor spaces, even if a payment has been made for metered parking(currently we have waived visitor fees).Stopping in the roadway to drop off or pick up students impedes traffic and is not permitted. Please pull into a parking lot if you are dropping anyone off or picking anyone up. If riding a bike on campus please utilize the bike racks by the UC and CASL directly adjacent to the buildings. Student Parking permits are available at the University Center (RUC) Information desk. Please bring your UMID card.Faculty and staff permits will be mailed upon completion of the online permit application.There is plenty of parking on the Dearborn campus to accommodate all faculty staff and students. Voluntary compliance with the parking requirements contributes to overall order and public safety for our campus community. Your cooperation is greatly appreciated. Kind Regards, Parking How to Reach Us We are located at the Campus Support Services building. Our office hours are 8:00 am - 4:30 pm Monday through Friday. You can also contact us by email or phone at 313-593-5480. Parking Services 1200 - Campus Support Services Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5480 Fax: 313-593-3519 [email protected]