Giving Support Dreams in Practice Breadcrumb Home Giving In this section In this section Giving Toggle Submenu Annual Giving Toggle Submenu Colleges Giving Blueday Monthly Giving Planned Giving Toggle Submenu Beneficiary Designations Charitable Gift Annuity Charitable Remainder Trust Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Ways to Give Toggle Submenu Faculty, Staff, and Retiree Campaign Look to Michigan Campaign Matches Contact Us Philanthropy at UM-DearbornAt the University of Michigan-Dearborn, we have been helping learners turn dreams into practice for over six decades. Along the way, alums and donors impacted our campus and our community in incredible ways. These past achievements are a source of great pride, but as we Look to Michigan, we celebrate the past while being focused on the future.Our world is shifting in dramatic ways. Higher education has to address new realities and respond to the ever-changing demands of the 21st century. Your support has never been more important. Look to Michigan and invest in the future Leaders & Best at UM-Dearborn. Give to UM-Dearborn Look to Michigan Look to Michigan Campaign and Priorities Look to Michigan Impact Report 2025 How to Reach Us We conduct university business both in-person and virtually. Our office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. We can be reached at [email protected] or 313-593-5130. Institutional Advancement 1110 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5130 Fax: 313-593-0540 [email protected] Related Resources Alumni Engagement Corporate and Foundation Engagement News and Stories More News 4/6/2026 AI education research leads to a UM-Dearborn first Industrial and Systems Engineering doctoral student Ella Ejichukwu’s research into how AI affects classroom experiences has led to her induction into the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society — a first for a UM-Dearborn student.... 3/30/2026 A student veteran’s course project looks to serve vets in need MBA student Michael Matteis designed a veteran-focused mental health app for a classroom assignment — it’s now gaining attention in the field.... 3/23/2026 ‘They are not standing at the edge of discovery — they are inside it’ Associate Professor of Biochemistry Besa Xhabija, a cancer researcher, explores ways to inhibit cancer cell growth. She’s training undergraduates to assist her in making new discoveries.... 2/11/2026 Support small shops and big ideas The College of Business’ Small Business Showcase will take place Feb. 17. Nearly 40 small businesses — owned by students, faculty, staff and community members — will offer a variety of items like clothing, food items and jewelry....