Early Childhood Education Center The ECEC is a unit of the College of Education, Health, and Human Services (CEHHS). We are a high quality early childhood program. Breadcrumb Home College of Education, Health, & Human Services Centers & Institutes Early Childhood Education Center In this section In this section Early Childhood Education Center Toggle Submenu About the ECEC Toggle Submenu Calendar Toggle Submenu GSRP Calendar 2026-2027 Committees History Hours of Operation Mission NAEYC Accreditation Philosophy Toggle Submenu Basic Philosophies of Reggio Emilia Quality Education Classrooms Toggle Submenu Toddlers Toggle Submenu Room 1 Room 2 Room 3 Preschool Toggle Submenu Room 4 Room 5 Room 6 Room 7 Room 9 Kindergarten Toggle Submenu Room 8 Enrollment Toggle Submenu Applications Enrollment Options, Tuition & Fees Great Start Readiness Program Grant (GSRP) ECEC Tuition Support Scholarship Prospective Families Toggle Submenu Open House Orientation Testimonials Visit the ECEC Resources Toggle Submenu Ages and Stages Children's Literature Employment External Website Links Forms Parent/Guardian Association Parent/Guardian Handbook School Safety Drill Information Symptom/Illness Reference Our Team Our early childhood program applies a Reggio Emilia inspired constructivism theory of learning to early childhood education. Our curriculum focus is nurturing children's critical thinking skills and problem solving skills. The ECEC is a State of Michigan approved and National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) accredited early learning center for young children. NAEYC's voluntary accreditation system has set standards for early childhood education programs and helped interested parties identify high-quality educational programs for young children. ECEC has accreditation by the National Association for the Education of Young Children effective through 2027.In addition, the ECEC is also a 5-star rated Great Start to Quality school (Demonstrating Quality) and a recipient of the 2018 Early Learning Award. We also serve as a model teacher preparation and child study facility for university students enrolled in a variety of UM-Dearborn education courses. 2026-2027 Enrollment Information Thank you for your interest in the UM-Dearborn Early Childhood Education Center (ECEC). The 26-27 enrollment application for new families became available on our website Monday, February 23rd at 8:00 am. Priority enrollment is given in the following order: current families, siblings, UM-Dearborn faculty, staff, and students, and community members.New Families: Please click on the Enrollment button posted on February 23rd to complete and submit your application. Current Families: Please use the link provided in your enrollment email.After your application has been processed (14 business days) and placement has been confirmed, you will receive a Contract Agreement and other required enrollment paperwork that must be signed and returned to the ECEC Office along with the $250.00 enrollment fee. Please verify that the information is correct, review & sign the documents and return the contract agreement, enrollment fee payment, and required enrollment forms to the ECEC Front Desk so we are able to schedule your Denver Screening for the last step of the enrollment process.*If we have a spot for your child, you will receive an enrollment email within 14 days of your submitted application. *If you do not receive an enrollment email with paperwork from the ECEC within 14 days of submitting your application, you can assume your child is on the waiting list. You are welcome to call the front desk to confirm.Because of enrollment priorities, our waitlist is continually changing and updating. We will not be assigning a waitlist number to applications, but will let you know if you're near the top if you call to check in. Please contact the ECEC front desk with any questions at [email protected] or 313-593-5424. 26-27 Enrollment Application 26-27 Flyer and Pricing 26-27 School Year Calendar ECEC Summer Camp Information Each summer the ECEC has a summer camp for ages 1 and walking through 6 years old! Our summer camp is six weeks long and will be from July 6th - August 14th, 2026. During summer camp we incorporate themes into the lesson plans! This summer the camp themes are "Nature Explorer's/Bug Hunt," "Art Exploration," and "Science Experiments." During summer we try to include water play (such as water tables and sprinklers) and lots of outside time!On the application, families are able to choose specific weeks of enrollment but families that select enrollment for all 6 weeks will receive priority. The schedules available to choose from are 2 days a week (Tuesdays & Thursdays), 3 days a week (Mondays, Wednesdays, & Fridays), and 5 days a week (Monday-Friday). Camp hours are from 8:00am to 4:00pm. Drop off time is between 8:00am - 9:30am and Pick Up is between 3:30pm to 4:00pm. Early drop off is not offered during summer camp. Late stay is offered until 5:00pm with limited availability.Priority enrollment is given to current ECEC families, newly enrolled families for the next school year, siblings, UM-Dearborn faculty, staff, and students, and former families.The tuition rates for summer camp 2026 are $85 per day for toddlers and $75 per day for preschoolers/older children. The enrollment fee is $35 per child. Applicable discounts will be applied for summer camp (sibling 5%, UM-Dearborn faculty or staff 10%, and UM-Dearborn students 15%).The summer camp enrollment application will be available for new families to apply on Monday, March 30th, 2026 at 8:00am. If you have additional questions regarding the ECEC summer camp please email the front desk ([email protected]) or give us a call (313-593-5424). 2026 Summer Camp Application Great Start Readiness Program (GSRP) Enrollment InformationEach year the ECEC applies for the Great Start to Readiness Program grant that is offered through the State of Michigan. This program allows us to provide free preschool programming to children who are 4 years old by September 1st, 2026. If your child turns 4 years old between September 2nd - December 1st you are still welcome to apply. Children with later birthdays cannot be accepted into the program until after September 1st if there is still availability.The program runs Monday through Thursday from 8am to 4pm. Families who are interested can fill out the application forms below and send them to the office ([email protected]). The program is largely based on family income right now, and the state will provide additional feedback to our program regarding enrollment timelines and qualification factors. Once all application forms are completed and turned in to the ECEC we will schedule a phone interview to review the information. GSRP Calendar 26/27GSRP Parent Handbook 26/27 Required Documents: Interest Form Child Information Record Health Appraisal Food Allergy Action Plan Policies and Agreements CACFP Food Nutrition Program Written Information Packet Additional Required Documents: Documentation of Income (W-2, 1040, or Pay Stubs) *If you choose not to share family income, your application will be held until August 1st and we can move forward with enrollment if there is availability.Parent IdentificationCopy of Birth Certificate or Alternative Proof of BirthProof of Immunizations/Shot RecordPlease note that incomplete applications will NOT be accepted, and the GSRP intake interview will need to be scheduled once all documentation is gathered. Early Childhood Education Center facebook Early Childhood Education Center 18501 Rotunda Dearborn, MI 48124 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5424 [email protected]