Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Focus on Design and Manufacturing IssuesOur graduate certificate program in plastic and composite materials bridges theory and practice in one of the fastest-growing areas of engineering. Our curriculum focuses on the design and manufacture of plastics and composite materials, particularly for automotive applications. Your courses will include practice-based learning about design, testing, manufacturing, and quality control processes and techniques used in automotive composites.You can take all courses for the 12-credit certificate in person, online, or a combination of both.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study You create your own program, choosing four courses that best suit your interests and career aspirations from six options:Finite Element MethodsComputational Materials DesignAdvanced Engineering MaterialsInjection MoldingMechanical Behavior of MaterialsComposite Materials Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.There are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Materials Engineers Industrial Engineers Aerospace Engineers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Mechanical Engineering, MSE Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit