Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Get Started in Digital Photography and DesignUnleash your creative potential and transform your passion for photography and design into a professional credential with our certificate in digital photography and design at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our program, which requires 12 to 14 credits, nurtures your personal expression while also equipping you with comprehensive creative and technical skills.Whether you use the certificate to pursue further artistic training, add to your skill set for a variety of professions, or even start your own business, the skills you’ll learn will open a world of opportunities. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Photographers Graphic Designers Art Directors Special Effects Artists and Animators Film and Video Editors and Camera Operators Photographers $42,520 Median SalaryPhotographers Employment of photographers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 12,700 openings for photographers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Graphic Designers $61,300 Median SalaryGraphic Designers Employment of graphic designers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 20,000 openings for graphic designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Art Directors $111,040 Median SalaryArt Directors Employment of art directors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 12,300 openings for art directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Special Effects Artists and Animators $99,800 Median SalarySpecial Effects Artists and Animators Employment of special effects artists and animators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 5,000 openings for special effects artists and animators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Film and Video Editors and Camera Operators $70,570 Median SalaryFilm and Video Editors and Camera Operators Overall employment of film and video editors and camera operators is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 6,400 openings for film and video editors and camera operators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our curriculum provides an in-depth understanding of aesthetic, technical, and critical elements of digital photography and design. You'll learn to understand and to work with images in professional settings, acquiring practical experience in industry-standard software programs used for photo editing and post-production, graphic design, and animation.Proficiency and versatility in the use of professional quality digital cameras and lighting equipment including lens selection, lighting setup, composition, styles, genres.Proficiency in the use of digital editing and image production software for creation and post-production of photography, graphic design, and/or animation.Understanding of digital photography and digital media creation for both artistic expression and commercial uses including issues pertaining to copyright, licensing, and image publication.Ability to plan and execute substantive and complex photography and digital media projects through the assembling of final portfolios for courses.An understanding of the history and impact of photography on society, art, and culture Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Art History and Museum Studies, BA Journalism and Media Production, BA Applied Art, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit