Graduate Admissions Take control of your career while earning the power and prestige of a Michigan degree. Breadcrumb Home Admissions & Aid Graduate Admissions In this section In this section Graduate Admissions Toggle Submenu Reasons to Attend How to Apply Toggle Submenu Application Deadlines Basic Admission Requirements Toggle Submenu U.S. Regional Accreditation Graduate Application Status Graduate Certificate Basic Requirements Graduate Non-Degree Application Procedures Graduate Tuition and Funding Graduate Non-Candidate for Degree/Guest Information Planning for Graduate School Request Graduate Information Admitted Graduate Students Toggle Submenu Pay Your Graduate Enrollment Deposit New Graduate Student Orientation Toggle Submenu Academic Information Policies Graduate Open Houses Take your career to the next level while earning the power and prestige of a Michigan degree.Nearly 2,000 graduate students every year choose to expand their horizons and advance their careers through master’s, specialist and doctoral degree programs at UM-Dearborn. Graduate students at UM-Dearborn study with thought leaders in their fields, work side-by-side with faculty on cutting-edge research, explore hands-on internship and practicum opportunities and expand their professional networks. We know many of our graduate students need flexibility to meet family, work and other obligations, so we offer many of our courses in the evening and online. Our international students will find the extra supports they need to settle into a new culture and obtain the CPT and OPT placements they desire.By enrolling in one of our 50 advanced degree programs, you’re making a commitment to yourself to expand your skill set and knowledge, develop as a leader, expand your network and advance your career. You’ll make powerful professional and industry connections that include the University of Michigan’s nearly 668,000-strong alumni network–one of the largest in the world.Apply today. Apply Now! Request Information Exploring UM-Dearborn Discover why UM-Dearborn is the right place to help you advance your career or try out a new field. Explore the links below to learn more about our campus, community and graduate programs. Graduate Programs Rankings and Accreditations Visiting Dearborn Graduate Visits & Events Housing Graduate Brochure Applying Now that you’ve selected UM-Dearborn to continue your education, use the links below to learn more about the application process. Choose Start Your Application and apply today! Basic Admissions Requirements Start Your Application How to Check Your Status Application Deadlines International Applicant Information Paying for College Learn the cost of your program and the funding opportunities available. Graduate Tuition and Funding Graduate Scholarships Student Research Grants Tuition and Fees Schedule Special Admissions Programs Veterans Guest/Non-Candidate for Degree 4+1 Bachelor + Masters Option Admitted Students Congratulations on your acceptance! Use the links below and at our Admitted Graduate Students page to navigate your next steps as a UM-Dearborn Wolverine. Orientation Register for Classes Wolverine Welcome Day Graduate Catalog UM-Dearborn Difference Maker Our students are improving the lives of others and making an impact in the community. Meet more Difference Makers. LaRico Andres Working with Professor Su helped me see what it is that I really wanted to do. And what I really wanted to do was help people. LaRico Andres, CECS PhD, '29 Office of Graduate Studies 2198 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-583-6321 Fax: 313-436-9156 [email protected] Related Resources Contact Graduate Admissions Contact Financial Aid Academic Calendar Graduate Studies Forms