Breadcrumb Home About UM-Dearborn Visit Campus In this section In this section About Toggle Submenu Mission University History Toggle Submenu University Symbols Leadership Visit Campus Toggle Submenu Maps and Directions Parking & Transportation Accreditations Facts and Figures Economic Impact Visit Campus Spend a day, a weekend or more exploring all that our university and our community have to offer. Check out our labs, studios, classroom and facilities and meet some of the students, faculty and staff who make the University of Michigan-Dearborn such a vibrant and welcoming place. Many campus events are open to the public. Once you’ve gotten a sense of our academics, take in the rest of our beautiful campus: visit the Stamelos Gallery, walk the trails at our Environmental Interpretive Center, tour the grounds of the Henry and Clara Ford estate or simply relax outside the Renick University Center or along Chancellor’s Pond.We welcome visitors to campus year round. Need help arranging your visit? Contact one of our offices for assistance:Office of Admissions & Orientation (Undergraduate)[email protected] Office of Graduate Studies (Graduate Admissions)313-583-6321 [email protected]Office of Alumni Engagement 313-593-5131 [email protected]Office of Institutional Advancement313-593-5130 [email protected] Transportation and Directions Campus is conveniently located just 20 minutes from Detroit Metropolitan Airport, 15 minutes from downtown Detroit and 38 miles east of Ann Arbor. We’re about a mile from the John D. Dingell Transit Center. Maps & Directions Transportation from Metro Airport (DTW) MDOT Construction Map Local Hotels The Dearborn area offers a range of hotels to accommodate you during your stay. DoubleTree by Hilton Courtyard by Marriott The Henry Autograph Collection Extended Stay America Where to Eat You can find coffee, snacks and meals right on campus. Picasso Deli, in the Renick University Center on main campus, features made-to-order sandwiches, a grill, soups, a salad bar, grab & go items, beverages and their famous mac & cheese. Starbucks in the RUC and Mug Life in the Mardigian Library offer coffee, tea and other beverages, plus breakfast and snack items. There are healthy and Halal options in vending machines around campus, too. Off-campus options in Dearborn offer cuisine from around the world. Satisfy any craving: shawarma, sushi, burgers, real Detroit-style pizza… and everything in between Local Attractions Take some time to explore the metropolitan area and soak in the region’s history, culture and recreation. The Dearborn Area Chamber of Commerce and Detroit Metro Convention and Visitors Bureau offer extensive listings of nearby attractions. Some of our favorite spots include: Arab American National Museum Automotive Hall of Fame The Henry Ford Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History Detroit Institute of Arts Motown Historical Museum Lower Huron Metropark The Detroit Zoo University of Michigan-DearbornAddress4901 Evergreen Road, Dearborn, Michigan 48128 (map) Related Resources Contact Information