Children and Families, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Children and Families, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Coursework Early Childhood Education Center Center for Exceptional Families Transfer Equivalences (for Community College Students) Become a Skilled Advocate for Children and FamiliesFamilies are one of the most important building blocks of our communities. You can make a positive impact on the lives of families while helping build stronger communities with a Bachelor of Arts degree in children and families from University of Michigan-Dearborn.Upon graduation, you’ll have a deep understanding of child development and the myriad social, economic, and cultural challenges families face in today’s complex world. But most importantly, you’ll have skills to help families improve their lives.Where a Children and Families Degree Will Take YouYour courses and experiences at UM-Dearborn will prepare you for a huge variety of opportunities to embrace your passion. Our graduates work as educators in Head Start and childcare centers, serve as teachers or administrators in programs for young children, help power agencies that advocate for young people and families, develop policies in government agencies, and more. Some of our students pursue graduate studies in psychology, education, social work, and other areas. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Preschool and Childcare Center Directors Social Workers Preschool Teachers School and Career Counselors Preschool and Childcare Center Directors $54,270 Median SalaryPreschool and Childcare Center Directors Employment of preschool and childcare center directors is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 5,500 openings for preschool and childcare center directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Preschool Teachers $37,120 Median SalaryPreschool Teachers Employment of preschool teachers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 65,500 openings for preschool teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. School and Career Counselors $65,140 Median SalarySchool and Career Counselors (master’s usually required) Employment of school and career counselors and advisors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,000 openings for school and career counselors and advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our broad curriculum offers courses in child development and psychology, family dynamics, the role of families in society and societal issues affecting families. You’ll also learn how to plan and implement a developmentally appropriate education program for young children. The program does not lead to teacher certification. If you want a teaching certificate, you should explore the birth to kindergarten education or elementary education programs. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain We believe in learning by doing. That's why we provide our students with numerous opportunities to work directly with children and families through internships and volunteer experiences. Our Early Childhood Education Center, which is accredited by the National Association for the Education of Young Children, lets you engage in valuable real-world work under the guidance of experienced professionals.More opportunities are available at the Michigan Alliance for Families, the Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency, Child’s Hope, and many other agencies and programs. Philosophy of UM-Dearborn Early Childhood Programs The early childhood programs are guided by the philosophy, objectives and standards promulgated by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) as well as those positions taken by the National Association of Early Childhood Educators (NAECTE) and the Standards of Quality for Pre-Kindergarten through Second Grades and other State Department of Education guidelines.The basic approach of the curriculum design for the ECE program is based on the view, consistent with NAEYC and the State Department of Education, that programs for young children must be developmentally appropriate taking into account the physical, social, emotional, and cognitive development of children while respecting the needs of families with diverse sociocultural backgrounds.The ECE program is designed to provide graduates with a strong background in child development, family and societal studies, and the pedagogical knowledge and skills, which will enable them to plan and implement a developmentally appropriate curriculum, that is consistent with the most current thinking in early childhood education.An essential component of the ECE program is field experience and students engage in hands-on learning at the UM-Dearborn Early Childhood Education Center (ECEC), the NAEYC accredited on campus education and childcare center for children ages one year through kindergarten, or another suitable location. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved There are opportunities to develop skills and connect with others interested in children and families beyond the classroom. You can join the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) as a student member or volunteer at Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency. Looking for real world experience? Request a field experience at the Michigan Alliance for Families with high-needs students outside of your own community. Programs Offered Beyond BA Early Childhood Education, MA Educational Leadership, MA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit