Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD IMSE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5361(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Become a Leader in Industrial and Systems EngineeringIf you want to acquire the advanced knowledge needed to become a creative researcher, technical leader, and technology innovator in industrial and systems engineering, our PhD program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is for you.The degree is a full-time, research-based program designed to equip you with the cutting-edge knowledge, technical skills, and abilities to conduct original, high-quality translational research in industrial and systems engineering. To lessen financial concerns, all PhD students receive full funding in the form of appointments as a graduate student instructor, a research assistant, or both. The appointments provide a monthly stipend, health insurance, and a tuition waiver. Students are guaranteed full funding for up to five years provided they maintain good academic standing and adequate progress toward their degree. Where a PhD in Industrial and Systems Engineering Will Take YouEarning the PhD places you on the fast track to a prosperous career in various industries requiring profound technical knowledge, research ability, and leadership skills. You could be a pioneer for change in a high-tech corporation, lead a team in advancing healthcare systems, or even become a university professor, spreading knowledge to the next generation of engineers. Program Details What You’ll Study You largely design your own comprehensive program. The requirements will vary based on your educational background, but your program will typically include:A seminar in PhD research methodologyNine credits of core coursesNine credits of courses you choose from one of three concentration areas: integrated design and manufacturing, operations research and decision science, or human factors and ergonomicsFour credits of cognate courses in computer and information science, electrical and computer engineering, mechanical engineering, mathematics and statistics, or psychology.Twenty-four credits for a PhD dissertationThis Ph.D. program of the Rackham Graduate School of the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor is located, administered, and offered by UM-Dearborn. The program observes the standards for admissions, registration, degree requirements, awarding of degrees, and other administrative policies and regulations established by the Executive Board of the Rackham Graduate School. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our PhD program at UM-Dearborn marries theory and practice, thus offering you ample opportunities to apply what you've studied through hands-on experiences. Our curriculum is designed to expose you to real-world scenarios and solutions, fostering an environment that nurtures technical innovation and creativity.More opportunities for hands-on experiences is available in our research programs. Check out the page for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s or master’s degree in engineering, applied mathematics, computer science, or a physical science from an accredited program. You need a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 for the bachelor’s degree and 3.5 for the master’s degree.You also must have taken 12 credits of calculus and one course each in linear algebra, operations research, and calculus-based probability and statistics, and you need knowledge of computer programming.To apply, you should include the following with your application:Three letters of recommendation, at least one of them from former facultyAn academic statement of purpose describing the intended field or fields of researchA personal statement describing the background and life experiences that motivate you to pursue a PhD degree at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and listing one or two Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering faculty with matching research interests Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by February 1 for Fall consideration and August 1 for Winter consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Operations Research Analysts Industrial Production Managers Logisticians Health and Safety Engineers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Logisticians $80,880 Median SalaryLogisticians Employment of logisticians is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 26,400 openings for logisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health and Safety Engineers $109,660 Median SalaryHealth and Safety Engineers Employment of health and safety engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for health and safety engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science PhD student Mayuresh Savargaonkar shares his experiences with learning, teaching and research. Related Programs Computer and Information Science, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit