Early Childhood Education, MA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Early Childhood Education, MA CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Combine Theory With Hands-On ExperiencesThe Administration and Leadership option is fully online only. Starting Fall 2026, the Special Education Inclusion option will only be offered fully online as well.Educators who work with young children can expand their skills and their career opportunities with a Master of Arts degree in early childhood education from University of Michigan-Dearborn. The 30-credit program is designed for working professionals and varied by concentration: Early Childhood Administration and Leadership is offered fully online, while Early Childhood Special Education is available as an in-person program. Course offerings are flexible, including evening, summer, and online options.You’ll learn about modern teaching methods, childhood behavior, administrative theories, curriculum development, and related topics. We also emphasize hands-on experiences, giving you a chance to put theories into practice.Where a Master’s in Early Childhood Education Will Take YouOpportunities abound for our graduates. Your training will prepare you to become a lead teacher, a preschool and childcare center director, an early childhood education researcher, a policymaker in an educational institution or government agency, and to tackle any number of related jobs. Whichever direction you take, you’ll be prepared to be a successful education leader. Program Details What You’ll Study Your courses will depend on which of two concentrations you choose:Early Childhood Administration and Leadership (Online)This entirely online concentration is designed for non-certified professionals such as directors, education coordinators and curriculum specialists who need more training in supervision and field experience in administration and leadership. Courses cover topics like research in education, program evaluation, special education legislation and litigation, school budgeting and financing, human resources and labor relations in a school setting, advanced child development, and technology for administrators.Early Childhood Special Education Inclusion (Online starting Fall 2026)This concentration is a non-endorsement program for teachers holding an Early Childhood (ZA/ZS) endorsement or who have significant preschool teaching experience. It concentrates on how to teach children with disabilities using a transdisciplinary inclusive approach. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we complement theoretical learning with practice-based experiences. Your exact opportunities will vary based on the concentration you choose, but they could include hands-on fieldwork and internships at our Early Childhood Education Center and the Beaumont Center for Exceptional Families. Out Of State Tuition Reduction Because the Early Childhood Administration and Leadership concentration is entirely online, students who aren’t Michigan residents qualify for the non-resident online tuition rate. This rate is about 30 percent lower than the normal non-resident rate, saving you nearly $1,500 per three-credit course. Admissions Requirements A GRE is not required. Students must submit the following with their application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institution3.0 GPA or higher on submitted transcriptsTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purposeA teaching certificate is required for the Early Childhood Specialist concentration. Applicants to the Special Education Inclusion concentration must complete an undergraduate or graduate course in early childhood special education prior to starting our graduate program (EDC 414/514 or equivalent). Online Options The Administration and Leadership concentration in this program is only offered fully online. Starting in the Fall of 2026, the Special Education Inclusion concentration will transition to only being offered fully online as well.Programs offered in a fully online format meet the same standard of quality and rigor as our on-campus programs. In addition, diplomas and transcripts for online programs are identical to those for on-campus programs. For the most part, classes are offered asynchronously and have regularly set deadlines for assignments, tests, exams, discussions, and other course requirements. Students engage in online classes through participation in discussions, assignments, projects, and modules that can contain videos, presentations, podcasts and other multimedia elements. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Preschool Teachers Preschool and Childcare Center Directors Preschool Teachers $37,120 Median SalaryPreschool Teachers Employment of preschool teachers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 65,500 openings for preschool teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Preschool and Childcare Center Directors $56,270 Median SalaryPreschool and Childcare Center Directors Employment of preschool and childcare center directors is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 5,500 openings for preschool and childcare center directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Teaching, MA Educational Leadership, MA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit