Computer and Information Science, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer and Information Science, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Computer and Information Science 4+1 From Artificial Intelligence to Gaming and BeyondComputer and information scientists combine their creativity with a deep knowledge of technology to solve practical challenges in all aspects of our lives. Our Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Science program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will immerse you in the field’s most exciting and dynamic disciplines.Our flexible program lets you choose from four concentrations:Computer ScienceInformation SystemsGame DesignArtificial IntelligenceMany courses within each concentration are electives, providing lots of options to tailor your program to align with your personal interests and professional goals.We also offer a 24-credit minor in Computer and Information Science.Where a Computer and Information Science Degree Will Take YouThe CIS degree from UM-Dearborn prepares our graduates to excel as software developers, data analysts, system architects, and in a variety of other high-demand roles. Our students also have the opportunity to pursue advanced studies in the field while taking courses. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer and Information Research Scientists Computer Systems Analysts Information Security Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Web Developers and Digital Designers Computer and Information Research Scientists $140,910 Median SalaryComputer and Information Research Scientists Employment of computer and information research scientists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,200 openings for computer and information research scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Web Developers and Digital Designers $95,380 Median SalaryWeb Developers and Digital Designers Overall employment of web developers and digital designers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for web developers and digital designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our CIS curriculum aligns with the recommendations of leading professional computing societies like the Association for Computing Machinery and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. The CIS degree emphasizes teamwork, ethics, professionalism, and written and oral communication skills. Because of the interdisciplinary nature of CIS, the curriculum integrates essential elements from mathematics, statistics, electrical and computer engineering, and business, among other areas.Your courses will cover essential subjects like data structures and algorithm analysis, software engineering, discrete structures, operating systems, computer organization and assembly language, networking and more. Exactly what courses you take will depend partially on which concentration you choose:The Computer Science concentration strengthens your knowledge of how computer systems work and prepares you for positions in embedded and systems programming, graphics and visualization, networks, scientific programming, and web technology, among others.The Information Systems concentration covers the design and development of computer information systems. It prepares graduates for positions in database management and applications, enterprise programming, information systems design, systems analysis, web-based information systems, and information engineering, among others.The Game Design concentration is for students whose dreams include careers in game programming, user experience design and augmented reality applications. It provides graduates with the theoretical knowledge and practical experience needed to program computer games or virtual user experiences at the professional level.The Artificial Intelligence concentration helps students understand core concepts and develop key skills for artificial intelligence. It prepares graduates for positions in intelligent system development, machine learning, deep learning, natural language processing, knowledge engineering, AI-powered analytics, and business intelligence, among others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we understand the importance of experiential learning. Many of our CIS courses involve hands-on group projects that provide you with the opportunity to learn from practical situations and prepare for real-world challenges.You also can get hands-on experience in our co-op education program, which lets you earn a salary and credit hours toward graduation while working full time during alternate semesters or part time during a regular semester. Some of the firms and governmental agencies that participate include Acromag, Apple, Chrysler, DTE Energy, Ford, General Electric, NASA, Nokia, and U.S. Steel. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration Undergraduate students from any college my pursue a minor in Computer and Information Science. The minor requires a minimum of 24 credits of Computer and Information Science courses with at least a 2.0 GPA. Earn Your Bachelors and Masters Degrees in Five Years (4+1) The Computer and Information Science accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete your bachelor’s in Computer and Information Science and master’s degrees in Computer and Information Science, Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance or Data Science in just five years, saving you time and money. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed 60 undergraduate credit hours, have completed specific courses, have a minimum GPA of at least 3.2 and other requirements. Accreditation The BS in Computer and Information Science (BS-CIS) program is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Computer Science. Program Educational Objectives Our graduates will be qualified for employment in Computer and Information Science related fields or other career paths, including industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental organizations, or will be successful graduate students in a program preparing them for such employment.Our graduates will be qualified to lead and participate in culturally diverse and inclusive teams, becoming global and ethical collaborators.Our graduates will be qualified to participate in continuing professional development through, for example, obtaining continuing education credits, professional registration or certifications, or post-graduate study credits or degrees. Student Outcomes Graduates of the BS in CIS program will have the ability to:Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program's discipline.Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program's discipline.Apply computer science theory and software development fundamentals to produce computing-based solutions. Student Enrollment and Graduation Data For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BS in Computer and Information Science program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BS Artificial Intelligence, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Related Programs Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Data Science, BS Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit