Education, MA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Education, MA CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services M.A. Education Flyer Expand Your Teaching Skills and OpportunitiesStarting Fall 2025, this program will be a fully online program.Flexibility is the hallmark of our Master of Arts in education program at University of Michigan-Dearborn. You choose which of four curriculum concentrations best suits your interests and professional goals. This fully online program provides you flexibility and convenience while still providing a rigorous course of study.The 30-credit program also offers the opportunity to earn an additional endorsement on your teaching certificate along with a master’s degree. It prepares you for renewal of a Standard Certificate or the upgrade to a Professional Education Certificate.Where a Master’s in Education Will Take YouGraduates of our MA in education program enjoy the satisfaction of expanding their skills and knowledge to become even better teachers. They also find doors opened in their professional lives that can help them move into leadership roles at the school and district levels. Program Details What You’ll Study You'll study established research methodologies and immerse yourself in best practices. The exact courses you’ll take to complete your 30 credit hours will depend on which of four concentrations you choose:M.A. in Education with no endorsement (Online)M.A. in Education with TESOL (Online)M.A. in Education with English as a Second Language Endorsement (Online)M.A. in Education with Reading Specialist K-12 Endorsement (Online)View the course catalog for specific course and credit requirements. Explore Program Requirements Out Of State Tuition Reduction Because the master’s program is entirely online, students who aren’t Michigan residents qualify for the non-resident online tuition rate. This rate is about 30 percent lower than the normal non-resident rate, saving you nearly $1,500 per three-credit course or almost $15,000 overall. Admission Requirements A GRE is not required. You must submit the following with your application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institution3.0 GPA or higher on submitted transcriptsTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purposeA teaching certificate is required if seeking a concentration tied to an additional endorsement. Fully Online This program is only offered in a fully online format in Fall 2025 and meets the same standard of quality and rigor as our on-campus programs. In addition, diplomas and transcripts for online programs are identical to those for on-campus programs. For the most part, classes are offered asynchronously and have regularly set deadlines for assignments, tests, exams, discussions, and other course requirements. Students engage in online classes through participation in discussions, assignments, projects, and modules that can contain videos, presentations, podcasts and other multimedia elements. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Postsecondary Teacher Instructional Coordinator Adult Basic and Secondary Education and ESL Teachers Postsecondary Teacher $83,980 Median SalaryPostsecondary Teacher (Ph.D. usually required) Overall employment of postsecondary teachers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 114,000 openings for postsecondary teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Instructional Coordinator $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinator Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Adult Basic and Secondary Education and ESL Teachers $59,950 Median SalaryAdult Basic and Secondary Education and ESL Teachers Employment of adult basic and secondary education and ESL teachers is projected to decline 14 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 3,900 openings for adult basic and secondary education and ESL teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Teaching, MA Educational Leadership, MA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit