Office of Graduate Studies The Office of Graduate Studies coordinates the graduate admissions process and supports strategic graduate enrollment and student success efforts at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Breadcrumb Home Office of Graduate Studies In this section In this section Office of Graduate Studies Toggle Submenu Graduate Program-Specific Contacts Doctoral Dissertation Policies and Procedures Master’s Thesis Policies and Procedures Thesis and Dissertation Release and Embargo Options Thesis and Dissertation Formatting Guidelines & Deep Blue Archiving Graduate Studies Forms Graduate Student Appreciation Week Three Minute Thesis Competition Contact UsEmail: [email protected]Phone: 313-583-6321Mailing Address: 2198 Social Sciences Bldg, 4901 Evergreen Rd., Dearborn, MI 48128 Graduate Admissions Support We coordinate the application process for all UM-Dearborn graduate programs to ensure a smooth and supportive experience. We can answer procedural questions about the admissions process, including navigating the online application, admissions policies, progressing through the admissions process, and deadlines. Appointments Schedule a virtual 15-minute appointment with a Graduate Studies team member to answer questions about the admissions process.We are on campus on Wednesdays in the Strategic Enrollment Collaboratory (2198 SSB). To request an on-campus appointment, please email [email protected].Questions about admissibility, prerequisites, program curriculum, and research areas can be directed to the relevant program-specific contact. Please contact the relevant area directly to schedule an appointment. Current Student SupportAdvising questions, including course selection, registration overrides, and degree requirements, can be directed to the relevant knowledgeable faculty and staff in your academic unit. Students can visit One Stop Student Services (1145 James C. Renick University Center) for important questions related to registering for classes, bill/payment information, and financial aid. They also provide true copy services to conditionally admitted students with holds for final documentation. Our Team Trista Wdziekonski Trista WdziekonskiExecutive Director, Graduate Enrollment Management Kristen Sanchez Kristen SanchezAssistant Director of Graduate Studies Erin Vickey Erin VickeyApplication Coordinator Meagan Spurr Meagan SpurrRecruitment and Enrollment Coordinator Jillian Poteracki Jillian PoterackiGraduate Admissions Data Processor Office of Graduate Studies 2198 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Sunday: Closed Monday: 8:00 am-5:00 pm Tuesday: 8:00 am-5:00 pm Wednesday: 8:00 am-5:00 pm Thursday: 8:00 am-5:00 pm Friday: 8:00 am-5:00 pm Saturday: Closed Phone: 313-583-6321 [email protected] Related Resources Graduate Admissions Graduate Catalog Certificates Academic Calendar