Art History and Museum Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Art History and Museum Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Study Human History Through ArtFrom painting and sculpture to photography, film, performance, and architecture, the arts provide a visual record of the evolution of human societies over history. Students in the art history and museum studies program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn choose from a wide variety of courses in world art that include broad surveys and advanced studies of specific cultures, periods, media, and topics. Research assignments often take them to area arts institutions such as the Detroit Institute of Arts, the University of Michigan Museum of Art, the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, the Cranbrook Art Museum, and the Toledo Museum of Art.While the major focuses on art, it teaches students a range of skills that are directly transferable to a wide variety of careers.Where an Art History and Museum Studies Degree Will Take YouOur program not only focuses on enriching your understanding of art, but also prepares you for the real world. It teaches you how to perform multidisciplinary research, synthesize information, conduct deep analysis, and communicate with diverse audiences. These critical thinking skills are crucial to today’s workforce, and prepare you for careers in areas such as museum work, marketing, and information and library science, among others. Many of our students also choose to further their studies and research in graduate programs. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Archivists, Curators, and Museum Workers Librarians and Library Media Specialists Art Directors Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Graphic Designers Archivists, Curators, and Museum Workers $57,100 Median SalaryArchivists, Curators, and Museum Workers Overall employment of archivists, curators, and museum workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,800 openings for archivists, curators, and museum workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Librarians and Library Media Specialists $64,320 Median SalaryLibrarians and Library Media Specialists (master’s usually required) Employment of librarians and library media specialists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 13,500 openings for librarians and library media specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Art Directors $111,040 Median SalaryArt Directors Employment of art directors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 12,300 openings for art directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Graphic Designers $61,300 Median SalaryGraphic Designers Employment of graphic designers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 20,000 openings for graphic designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The program provides lots of flexibility, often letting you choose what you’ll study from groups of related courses. Whatever courses you choose, you'll be immersed in various art forms: architecture, decorative arts, film, painting, performance art, photography, printmaking, and sculpture. You’ll also get hands-on experience creating art in an applied art course of your choice. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Visual Literacy: identifying and understanding works of art and stylistic trends in major genres, periods, and cultural traditions of visual expression.Art in Context: appreciating the social, historical, and cultural contexts for both visual expression and responses to art, and facility in articulating these contexts orally and in writing.Critical and Creative Thinking: describing, researching, analyzing, and interpreting works of art, including the ability to understand and apply different art historical methods.Your learning will not be confined to classrooms. We encourage you to take advantage of the internship and research opportunities available within our program. Our majors often intern at cultural institutions such as the Detroit Institute of Arts, the University of Michigan Museum of Art, the Toledo Museum of Art, the Cranbrook Museum of Art, the Henry Ford Museum and Estate, the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, the Smithsonian Institution, and other major arts institutions and galleries. You’ll also gain practical experience by creating an art exhibition on campus as the capstone of your major. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in art history and museum studies (ARTH).Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee I don't see [Art History] as limiting...there's so much you can do with it! NICHOLAS POBUTSKY, ART HISTORY How to Get Involved There are numerous ways to get involved outside the classroom. You can join the Art Club, become a supplemental instructor in art history to tutor and mentor other students, volunteer at local cultural institutions, check out any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs Applied Art, Minor/Concentration Film Studies, Minor/Concentration Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit