African and African American Studies, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program African and African American Studies, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty College-Wide Programs College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Start Your Exploration of the History and IssuesOur certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides an introduction to the rich histories, struggles, and contributions of Africans and African descendants in the Diaspora. As you delve into the dynamic dialogue between African and global history, you’ll unlock potential pathways to creating meaningful changes.The interdisciplinary approach of this certificate provides students with analytical frameworks for understanding how social, cultural, legal, and political factors influence the lives of African and African American individuals, families, and communities. This program of study also examines a broad range of diversity issues to understand the ways that African and African Diaspora experiences intersect with ideas about race, ethnicity, class, religion, gender identity, and culture in people’s lives.This undergraduate and post-baccalaureate certificate complements our undergraduate degree and minor in African and African American studies. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Postsecondary Teachers Historians Sociologists Social Workers Health Education Specialists Postsecondary Teachers $83,980 Median SalaryPostsecondary Teachers (PhD usually required) Overall employment of postsecondary teachers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 114,000 openings for postsecondary teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Historians $74,050 Median SalaryHistorians (master’s usually required) Employment of historians is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 300 openings for historians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sociologists $101,690 Median SalarySociologists (master’s usually required) Employment of sociologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 300 openings for sociologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health Education Specialists $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialists Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Our curriculum covers essential aspects of the African American experience, the continuities between African civilization and the cultures of Africans in the Diaspora, the contributions of political leaders, intellectuals, and artists, and the critical movements for change in African and African American history.The 12-credit certificate requires an introductory course. You choose the remaining courses from more than 30 options. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs African and African American Studies, BA Urban and Regional Studies, BA Political Science, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit