Breadcrumb Home About UM-Dearborn Economic Impact In this section In this section About Toggle Submenu Mission University History Toggle Submenu University Symbols Leadership Visit Campus Toggle Submenu Maps and Directions Parking & Transportation Accreditations Facts and Figures Economic Impact Economic Impact The University of Michigan-Dearborn was founded in 1959 to meet a growing need for college-trained engineers and business professionals in the automotive industry. Today, UM-Dearborn continues to power southeast Michigan’s economy by offering an affordable path to a college degree, providing a practice-based education for the state’s future workforce, supporting quality preK-12 education and engaging in practical research that meets the needs of our region.Preparing Michigan’s workforceUM-Dearborn’s hands-on, practice-based curriculum equips students with the real-world experience Michigan employers seek. 94% of students who accept employment after graduation stay and work in Michigan Innovative programs in fields like AI, cybersecurity and battery engineering prepare students for Michigan’s cutting-edge industries. Our master’s degree in AI was the first program of its kind in Michigan. UM-Dearborn partners with community colleges across Michigan to train professionals in high-demand fields and provide a seamless pipeline to a four-year degree. Learn4ward – A guaranteed admission partnership with Henry Ford College, enabling students to earn both an associate and bachelor’s degree within 4-6 years. College of Education, Health, and Human Services 2+2 - Aspiring teachers begin training at their local community colleges, finish their coursework online with UM-Dearborn and complete their student teaching in their own community – helping to address the rural K-12 teacher shortage. Our STEM Scholars program prepares students from low-income backgrounds for STEM careers, ensuring a diverse talent pipeline. Our SOAR Program and our partnership with the Diploma Equity Project help adult and non-traditional learners obtain their college degrees, in support of Michigan’s 60x30 goal. Providing a path to prosperityUM-Dearborn is classified by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching as a top-tier Opportunity University based on access and post-grad earnings for economically disadvantaged students. We are one of only four public universities in Michigan to hold this distinction. UM-Dearborn has the lowest average annual cost among 15 public Michigan universities 35% of full-time in-state undergraduate students have tuition and fees fully covered by scholarships and other financial aid. 94% of UM-Dearborn undergraduates are Michiganders, representing 47 counties. The majority of our students come from our local community: Dearborn and surrounding western Wayne County. UM-Dearbon graduates have the 4th highest starting salary among Michigan public universities. Ranked #1 regional public university in Michigan for social mobility by U.S. News and World Report Making Our Region Healthier, Safer and More CompetitiveUM-Dearborn emphasizes practical research, often driven by the needs of local industry. We have particular strengths in the areas of mobility, advanced manufacturing, cybersecurity, energy systems, AI and biomedicine. $13.8 million in research expenditures in FY 2025 Designated an R2 "High Research Activity" university by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching Helping Michigan’s preK-12 students succeedOur innovative 2+2 teacher education partnerships with community colleges across the state help address Michigan’s rural K-12 teacher shortage. Our Early Childhood Education Center — a 5-star rated Great Start to Quality School — provides high-quality preschool education for children from a range of economic backgrounds while training aspiring teachers from universities across southeast Michigan for early education careers UM-Dearborn augments classroom experiences and helps K-12 students bridge learning gaps through our Center for Math Education and our Environmental Interpretive Center. UM-Dearborn helps raise college-going rates and math and science scores among economically disadvantaged high school students through our GEAR UP and UpwardBound programs.