Office of the Provost Welcome! Breadcrumb Home Office of the Provost In this section In this section Office of the Provost Toggle Submenu About Us Communications Initiatives and Projects Awards Affiliation Agreements Ghassan KridliInterim Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs The Office of the Provost is committed to promoting academic excellence at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The Interim Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, Ghassan Kridli, is responsible for:Curriculum and academic programs, including global learning, digital education, and learning assessmentTeaching and student successResearch and the Mardigian LibraryFaculty resourcesEnrollment management, including financial aid and scholarshipsInternships and career servicesStudent affairs About our Interim Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Ghassan T. Kridli serves as the Interim Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. His journey at UM-Dearborn began in Fall 1997 when he joined as a faculty member in the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering. His leadership roles include serving as Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education in the College of Engineering and Computer Science (CECS) starting in 2015, followed by his tenure as Dean of CECS from Fall 2020 through May 2025. He then transitioned into his present position as Interim Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs.Dr. Kridli’s research has significant industrial applicability with a focus on the design and manufacturing of sheet metal products made from lightweight alloys. Specifically, his work centers on the mechanical and metallurgical characterization of light alloys, and the use of numerical models to predict material formability for automotive applications.Dr. Kridli’s experience includes extensive work in curriculum development and in program assessment aimed at continuous improvement. He has played a key role in designing and implementing strategies to promote student success, as well as investigating effective pedagogical practices in engineering education. In collaboration with fellow STEM faculty at UM-Dearborn, Dr. Kridli has helped develop educational programs that prepare K-12 teachers to integrate engineering concepts within a STEM curriculum.Dr. Kridli received his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Miami in 1986 and 1988, respectively, and his Ph.D. from the University of Missouri in 1997. Academic Program and Course Development Looking to develop a new academic course or program? Find all of the information you need in the Important Pedagogical and Academic Practices and Policies to Consider. Student Learning and Outcomes Assessment Undertaking any curriculum change activity (e.g., course change, major change, etc.) should initially include a conversation about how learning outcomes are demonstrated or measured in your courses and degree programs. How to Reach Us We conduct university business both in-person and virtually. Our contact information and location are below.Our in-person office hours are:Monday - Friday, 8 AM - 5 PM Office of the Provost 2150 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5030 Related Resources Accreditations Data Privacy Dearborn Discovery Core Disability and Accessibility Services Resources for Faculty Faculty & Staff Policies and Procedures Institutional Data & Dashboards Interfolio Promotion and Tenure Procedures