Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Department of Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn How to Defeat Hackers and Other CriminalsCyberattacks threaten everything from your online bank account to U.S. national security. Meanwhile, evidence from cell phones, computers, and other devices is increasingly important in prosecuting a host of crimes — if law enforcement can access the information. Our Bachelor of Science in cybersecurity and information assurance aims to train an elite, diverse group of students who are ready to address the wide range of real-world computer security and criminal justice challenges.Our in-depth program offers a choice between two concentrations:Cybersecurity and PrivacyDigital ForensicsWhere a Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Degree Will Take YouOur graduates find career opportunities in industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental organizations. The ongoing growth in the cybersecurity sector ensures wide-ranging career options. Additionally, our alumni are equipped with the skills to keep learning and growing through continuing professional development, including pursuit of advanced degrees like the Master of Science in cybersecurity and information assurance that we offer at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Information Security Analysts Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Systems Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Computer Network Architects Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Which concentration you choose helps determine your courses:The Cybersecurity and Privacy concentration educates students in the fundamentals and principles of cybersecurity and privacy and provides them with labs and experiences that encourage creative thinking. You’ll study subjects like wireless and mobile security, computer and network security, data security and privacy, intelligence and homeland security, software security, and cryptography, among others. The Digital Forensics concentration focuses on examining and analyzing computer hard drives, storage devices, cell phones, tablets, and other electronic devices that may hold evidence that could be used in a court of law. You’ll be able to study subjects like computer and network security, multimedia forensics, digital content protection, criminology, digital evidence, intelligence and homeland security, and cyber crimes, among others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Our internship, research, and study abroad programs offer a wealth of hands-on experiences for cybersecurity and information assurance students. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Accreditation Educational Objectives 1. Our graduates will be qualified for employment in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance related fields or other career paths, including industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental organizations, or will be successful graduate students in a program preparing them for such employment.2. Our graduates will be qualified to lead and participate in culturally diverse and inclusive teams, becoming global and ethical collaborators.3. Our graduates will be qualified to participate in continuing professional development through, for example, obtaining continuing education credits, professional registration or certifications, or post-graduate study credits or degrees. Student Outcomes Graduates of the BS in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance program will have the ability to:Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline.Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program’s discipline.Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence of risks and threats. Enrollments and Degrees Granted For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BS in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Artificial Intelligence, MS Related Programs Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Computer and Information Science and Data Science, Dual BS Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit