Integrative Studies, BA/BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Integrative Studies, BA/BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources CASL Departments College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Create Your Own MajorIntegrative studies is the most flexible major we offer at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It lets you customize your degree program to align with your unique interests, career goals, and aspirations.Instead of majoring in a single subject, you select three minors–renamed concentrations for the degree–to create a major. The concentrations cover Arabic studies, artificial intelligence, entrepreneurship, environmental science, game design, marketing, music, physics, supply chain management, and women’s and gender studies, among dozens of other subjects.Where an Integrative Studies Degree Will Take YouAn integrative studies degree is your key to a multitude of careers and academic opportunities. Our graduates have used their interdisciplinary knowledge to climb the ranks in a variety of fields. You also can create an excellent foundation for graduate and professional education in fields such as business, counseling, law, public administration, and social work. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Social and Community Service Managers Training and Development Managers Public Relations Specialists Management Analysts Human Resources Managers Social and Community Service Managers $78,240 Median SalarySocial and Community Service Managers Employment of social and community service managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,600 openings for social and community service managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Training and Development Managers $127,090 Median SalaryTraining and Development Managers Employment of training and development managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,800 openings for training and development managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Management Analysts $101,190 Median SalaryManagement Analysts Employment of management analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 98,100 openings for management analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study It all depends on which three concentrations you choose from among dozens of options. Check out your options by clicking on the Catalog link. The options you choose also will determine whether you receive a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science degree. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain No matter which concentrations you choose, your courses will emphasize practice-based learning where you apply theories to real-world situations. Be able to think critically across disciplinary lines and demonstrate a creative breadth of knowledge drawn from diverse perspectives. Be able to demonstrate fundamental knowledge of each chosen focus area. Be able to take responsibility for life-long educational and career planning which integrates varied approaches in education and a multidisciplinary curriculum. Be able to compare and contrast related concepts.We also encourage you to take advantage of our internship, research, and study abroad programs, all of which offer fabulous immersive experiences. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Customized Pathways The Customized PathwayPotential Concentrations Include:You can customize by choosing three concentrations.Career Opportunities Include:You can choose from any of the concentrations to build a degree based on interests, experience, prior credits, and future goals. The Media PathwayPotential Concentrations Include:Sociology or PsychologyJournalism & Media Production or CommunicationMarketing or Digital MarketingCareer Opportunities Include:Digital Marketing, Social Media Manager, Content Creation, Public Relations, Media Relations, Integrated Communications Specialist. The Mental Health PathwayPotential Concentrations Include:PsychologyCriminal Justice or SociologyHuman Services or Public Health.Career Opportunities Include:Service Facilitator/Case Manager, Psychiatric/Mental Health Technician, Child & Family Services, School Counselor, Group Home Manager, Benefits and Wellness Specialist, Rehabilitation Counselor. The STEM PathwayPotential Concentrations Include:Applied StatisticsEnvironmental StudiesComputer & Information Science or Artificial Intelligence.Career Opportunities Include:Data Science, AI, Cloud Computing, Website Developer, Researcher, Ecologist, Environmental Planner, Conservationist. Two Degree Paths: Master's and Accelerated 4+1 With Integrative Studies, students can choose the CEHHS (College of Education, Health & Human Service) 4+1 Applied Behavior Analysis program to complete their master's on top of the BS or BA. There are two pathway options toward a master's degree:The first path is a traditional master's program. After graduation from their undergraduate degree, students will complete one additional year of coursework before beginning a culminating applied project. You can take courses full time or part time, and evening courses are available to accommodate working students.The second path is an accelerated 4+1 program. You pursue any undergraduate major at UM-Dearborn. During your senior year, you take five graduate-level classes in the applied behavior analysis program that are “double counted” toward both your undergraduate and graduate degrees. This lets you complete the remaining requirements for an MS in applied behavior analysis in just one year. Learn more about the 4+1 accelerated program. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Ultimately, it was a savior for me...It was the degree that opened up that door for me. Ray Field, BA Integrative Studies 2022 How to Get Involved UM-Dearborn is home to a vibrant student body and bustling campus life. You can join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, conduct research with our expert faculty, write for our daily student newspaper, help fellow students as a paid tutor at the Writing Center, volunteer for community outreach activities, and much more. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit