Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Marketing, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Marketing, MS College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Marketing 4+1 Marketing Analytics 4+1 Dual Degree Programs Redesigned for Fall 2025Become a Premier InfluencerLearn how to understand and influence customer behavior in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. We’ve designed the courses to maximize your career readiness, whether you’re interested in strategic marketing management, digital marketing, branding, consumer psychology, customer relationship management, or another facet of marketing.Also, be sure to check out our related NEW program in Marketing Analytics, which combines cutting-edge analytics, artificial intelligence, and time-tested marketing principles.Earn your degree on your schedule. Designed for both full-time and part-time students, you can complete your degree entirely online or in a combination of online and on-campus courses in the evening.* Want to jump start your degree? If you’re a current UM-Dearborn undergraduate student and you’ve been admitted to the master’s program, you can take up to six graduate credits during your final undergraduate semester.*Students on F-1 visas may need to take additional courses or seek admission to the MS in Marketing Analytics or MBA to meet the requirements for full-time, in-person coursework. Where an MS in Marketing Will Take YouMarketing skills are essential in virtually any organization, including businesses, nonprofits, government agencies, and academia. With your master’s degree from UM-Dearborn you’ll be ready to undertake a variety of roles, including brand strategist, digital marketing manager, market research analyst, customer insights analyst, social media manager, advertising director, and public relations specialist, among many others. Program Details What You’ll Study You have the flexibility to shape your own program at UM-Dearborn. The 30-credit degree consists of six core courses and four electives. The core courses cover topics like digital marketing, marketing management, advertising and promotions, and understanding customers. You'll choose electives to go more in-depth into marketing topics, such as marketing analytics and artificial intelligence, or explore subjects as diverse as cost management, project management, communications, operations management, or product development. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our program is deeply rooted in practice-based learning that gives you real-life business experience. You'll be actively involved in practical assignments that bring classroom theories to life.You'll develop skills such as:Crafting and implementing integrated marketing campaigns across digital and traditional platformsAnalyzing consumer behavior to tailor marketing strategies effectivelyLeveraging digital marketing tools, including SEO, social media, and influencer marketingManaging sales, advertising, and promotional strategiesCommunicating persuasively to engage and influence diverse audiencesUtilizing psychological insights to enhance customer engagementThese practical skills will prepare you for marketing roles across industries. Online Option Our online programs meet the same course requirements and admission standards as campus-based programs, and your diploma and transcript will be identical. Whether you complete your degree online, on campus, or in a hybrid format, it’s the same degree. Online students are welcome to enroll in campus-based courses and are encouraged to take advantage of campus resources and in-person events, like professional organizations and study-abroad opportunities.Asynchronous Virtual ClassroomCollege of Business online courses follow the regular semester schedule and are mostly delivered asynchronously. This means your professors will set deadlines, but you’ll have flexibility in when you complete assignments, tests, and activities. Unless specified, there’s no need to log in at a specific time, allowing you to participate from anywhere with internet access! To keep you engaged, our online courses often include group discussions, videos, projects, and quizzes or exams.Personalized Attention and SupportAs an online graduate student, you’ll have direct access to your professors, just as if you were on campus. You’ll also receive priority registration for online courses each semester. For academic advising, call us at 313-593-4776 to schedule a phone appointment during daytime or early evening hours, or email quick questions to umd-cobgradadvisor@umich.edu. While not required, we encourage online students to take advantage of campus resources and events, including professional organizations and study-abroad opportunities. Additionally, you’ll have full access to digital resources like the UM-Dearborn library. Transfer Credit and Course Exemptions Previous coursework deemed substantially similar to DS 520, if completed with a grade of "B" or better, may qualify to exempt students from that course. Exempt courses must be replaced with other approved courses in the degree program.In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for previous equivalent graduate coursework, if completed with a grade of "B" or better, may be applied to the degree if those credits have not previously been counted toward a degree.Exemptions and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Domestic applicants:Fall term: August 1Winter term: December 1Summer term: April 1 (part-time students only)International applicants:Fall term: May 1Winter term: September 1(International not eligible for summer admission)Admission is rolling. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term, but applications and materials will be accepted until the posted "Last Day to Submit". View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Public Relations Specialists Market Research Analysts Public Relations and Fundraising Managers Sales Managers Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Market Research Analysts $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analysts Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations and Fundraising Managers $132,870 Median SalaryPublic Relations and Fundraising Managers Overall employment of public relations and fundraising managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 10,200 openings for public relations and fundraising managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sales Managers $138,060 Median SalarySales Managers Employment of sales managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 49,000 openings for sales managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Marketing Analytics, MS Business Administration, MBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Connect with Us