Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Accounting, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Accounting, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Accounting 4+1 CPA exam preparation Analyze and Solve Complex Business ProblemsWhether you want to enter the corporate world or become a CPA, our accounting program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will lay the foundation for your future professional career. Our program is designed to challenge you – to make you recognize, define, and resolve complex business problems – and equip you with the multifaceted skills necessary to successfully navigate the business landscape.Our courses are taught by expert faculty, not teaching assistants. They cover the core principles of financial accounting, the operational cycles in various industries, cost behavior, budgeting, and financial reporting – all with the aim of cultivating accountants who can produce and analyze financial information for decision making.To enhance your likelihood of success on the CPA exams, the College of Business partners with UWorld to provide access to online CPA preparation courses at a significant discount -- up to 50% off the prices offered to others.Where an Accounting Major Will Take YouThe knowledge and skills you'll gain as an accounting major at UM-Dearborn will prepare you to confidently step into varied roles across industries. Our accounting majors typically find jobs in corporate accounting or public accounting. Many pursue graduate studies, a Certified Public Accountant license, or a Certified Management Accountant certification. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Accountants and Auditors Budget Analysts Personal Financial Advisors Financial Analysts Financial Managers Accountants and Auditors $81,680 Median SalaryAccountants and Auditors Employment of accountants and auditors is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 124,200 openings for accountants and auditors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Budget Analysts $87,930 Median SalaryBudget Analysts Employment of budget analysts is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 3,100 openings for budget analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Personal Financial Advisors $102,140 Median SalaryPersonal Financial Advisors Employment of personal financial advisors is projected to grow 10 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 24,100 openings for personal financial advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Managers $161,700 Median SalaryFinancial Managers Employment of financial managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,600 openings for financial managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The required courses in your 120-credit degree consist of the Dearborn Discovery Core general education courses, a course in critical thinking, 29 credits of BBA prerequisites, 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, and 21 credits in your accounting major. Your major courses will cover topics like cost accounting and analysis, financial accounting, federal income taxation, auditing, and corporate finance, among others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Your courses will emphasize hands-on, real-world learning. You also can analyze a vast amount of real-time market data in the Bloomberg Finance Lab, study abroad in Italy or Taiwan, get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, help conduct real-world research at our iLabs research institute, help your fellow students become more effective business communicators as a consultant at the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The 15-credit minor consists of four required courses and one elective. A prerequisite course in college algebra or pre-calculus is also required. Explore Minor Requirements Fast-Track Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees with a 4+1 Program Accounting Majors: Accelerate Your Path to a Master’s DegreeUM-Dearborn accounting majors can earn both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in just five years through our Accounting 4+1 program. This accelerated option allows you to complete the Master of Science in Accounting with significant savings in both time and cost.Students may double-count up to five graduate-level marketing courses toward their undergraduate degree. Not only do you save the time associated with completing five graduate courses, but you also pay the undergraduate tuition rate for those same graduate courses. Students who continue on to complete the master’s program can save approximately $17,000, based on part-time enrollment at resident tuition rates. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Opportunities abound outside the classroom. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, volunteer with the Accounting Aid Society to prepare free tax returns for people in need, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include Alpha Kappa Psi, American Marketing Association, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Society for Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Programs Offered Beyond BBA Accounting, MS Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Business Administration, MBA Related Programs Finance, BBA Business Analytics, BBA Information Systems Management, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit