Career Services We help students and alumni succeed! Breadcrumb Home Career Services In this section In this section Career Services Toggle Submenu Exploring Majors and Careers Job and Internship Prep Toggle Submenu Resumes and Cover Letters Networking Interviewing Finding Employment Toggle Submenu Veteran Career Resources Resources for Students with Disabilities Contractual Agencies Tips for Student Employees Alumni Career Resources Data, Trends and Transitions Career Services for Employers Career Support for Your Students Talent Gateway About Us Welcome to Career Services! Career Services helps UM-Dearborn students and alumni with career exploration and planning, job preparation, and job search skill development. We facilitate connections between students, employers, and the community by providing a wide range of events and guidance that help students. We encourage students to meet with us every year they are on campus in order to plan and maximize their time as a student to be more competitive for the internship and job market in the future.CURRENT STUDENTSExplore this website for self-assessments, career guides, finding employment, interview practice, resume samples and tracking industry trends. We encourage students to schedule an appointment to discuss your job search, things you can be doing now to be more competitive later, and let us know if you have any questions through email communication: [email protected]. *If you are a College of Business student, please look for the COB Students' Success Team in your student portal when scheduling an appointment.Resume & Cover Letter ReviewsCareer Services prefers to conduct the first review of a resume (or cover letter) during an appointment with a Career Coach or during established walk-in hours with our professionally trained Career Peers. In those coaching appointments, you can also learn about Big Resume, a resume feedback tool, for future resume iterations.RECENT ALUMNIPlease note that you must email [email protected] to schedule an appointment** (don't use the form linked in the button below). Please includewhen you graduated and from what program of studysome dates and times that work for you during traditional business hoursthe topic you would like to discussif you prefer a virtual or in-person appointmentIf you would like to discuss your resume or cover letter and have started that document already, please include that document as an attachment to your email. **If you are a College of Business graduate, please reach out to the Business Career Center within the College of Business.Resources for all alumni can be found on the "Alumni Career Resources" tab to the left. Schedule an Appointment with a Career Coach (STUDENTS ONLY) Find Employment in Wolverine Career Connections Workshop Request for Class/Student Org Focus 2 Career Assessment - Access Code is goblue Resume Tips Student Employment Interviewing Big Interview Considering Graduate School? Campus Resource Guide Drop-in Career Support!Resume Reviews, Interview Tips, Job Search Strategies, & More!Mondays 2pm - 3pmTuesdays 11am - 12pm & 2pm - 3pmWednesdays 11am - 12pmCareer Services RUC 1183 Listen to our channel on Spotify for quick & easy tips, best practices, and a variety of career readiness topics from our Career Peers (student employees): Episode #1: Career Fair: Prepare & NetworkEpisode #2: Interviewing BasicsEpisode #3: Researching Employers More Career Services Events Hours In-office hours: Monday-Thursday 9 am - 5 pmFriday: By appointment is recommended to ensure staff availability 9 am - 5 pmNeed an appointment? Schedule one with a Career Coach! Or email us at [email protected] Career Services instagram twitter facebook 1183 - James C. Renick University Center 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5020 Fax: 313-593-3705 [email protected]