External Relations Communications, Marketing, Government Relations and Web Services Breadcrumb Home External Relations Our ServicesThe Office of External Relations staff at University of Michigan-Dearborn provides strategic support to the campus community in the areas of communications, marketing, government relations and web strategy and development. Communications Campus news, social media, media relations, key issues, crisis communications and communications planning. Marketing Maintains brand standards for the university and provides management and services for email marketing platforms, university-wide advertising, university images, photography, graphic design and print production. Web Services Manages our university-wide content management system and governance, and supports web standards through training, best practices and accessibility. Government Relations Represents us at the federal, state and local levels. Request Our Services Brand Identity and Logos UM-Dearborn Styleguide Media Inquiries Latest UM-Dearborn News More News 3/24/2026 What can Rwanda teach us? Three UM-Dearborn researchers — two professors and a student — traveled to Africa to learn lessons about forgiveness and national healing. Building off of the connections made, UM-Dearborn will offer a Study Abroad program in Rwanda in 2027.... 3/23/2026 ‘They are not standing at the edge of discovery — they are inside it’ Associate Professor of Biochemistry Besa Xhabija, a cancer researcher, explores ways to inhibit cancer cell growth. She’s training undergraduates to assist her in making new discoveries.... 3/19/2026 Campus building to be renamed for UM-Dearborn’s 5th chancellor At its March 19 meeting, the U-M Board of Regents approved a recommendation to rename the AB as the Daniel Little Building.... 3/16/2026 Does polluted air dampen your mood? A CASL and CECS interdisciplinary project strengthens the research connection between air quality and wellbeing, while also developing a new algorithm that aids in high-quality data collection.... External Relations Second floor - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5140