Engineering Mathematics, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Engineering Mathematics, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Add Advanced Mathematics Skills to Your Engineering ProgramLearn how to develop innovative mathematical solutions to complex engineering problems with a concurrent degree in engineering mathematics from UM-Dearborn. You’re eligible to pursue the concurrent degree if your primary major is:BioengineeringComputer engineeringElectrical engineeringIndustrial and systems engineeringManufacturing engineeringMechanical engineeringRobotics engineeringThe engineering mathematics program gives you the opportunity to expand your knowledge in applied mathematics, which is essential in modern engineering. You must earn your principal engineering degree and the engineering mathematics degree at the same time.Where an Engineering Mathematics Degree Will Take YouAdding advanced mathematical skills to your principal engineering degree will open up a broad range of job opportunities in industry, research and development, and elsewhere. The combination of engineering and advanced mathematics skills also can serve as a strong foundation for pursuing graduate education in engineering, such as in the numerous programs we offer at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mathematicians and Statisticians Operations Research Analysts Aerospace Engineers Civil Engineers Electrical and Electronics Engineers Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians (master’s usually required) Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Civil Engineers $99,590 Median SalaryCivil Engineers Employment of civil engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,600 openings for civil engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The curriculum is robust yet flexible. To earn the degree, you take 15 credits of advanced mathematics courses beyond the 16 credits of mathematics required for your principal engineering degree. Only one course is required. You choose the remaining four courses from 20 options, allowing you to design a program that meets your personal interests and professional goals. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Throughout your courses, you’ll apply mathematical tools and techniques to a gamut of real-world problems. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of real-world opportunities. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Related Programs Bioengineering, BSE Computer Engineering, BSE Mechanical Engineering, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit