Global Engagement, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Global Engagement, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Enhance Your Global UnderstandingAs the world continues becoming more connected every day, diverse cultures, economies, and political systems interact in complex and sometimes unpredicted ways. Our interdisciplinary certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn helps you develop intercultural competence and an understanding of global systems.You can use this knowledge in a variety of careers in business, government, nonprofits, and education. Or you can use it simply to become a better informed, more engaged citizen of our ever-more-complex world. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Political Scientists Economists Interpreters and Translators Urban and Regional Planners Geographers Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists (master’s usually required) Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Economists $115,440 Median SalaryEconomists (master’s usually required) Employment of economists is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 900 openings for economists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Urban and Regional Planners $83,720 Median SalaryUrban and Regional Planners (usually requires a master’s) Employment of urban and regional planners is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,400 openings for urban and regional planners are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Geographers $97,200 Median SalaryGeographers Employment of geographers is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 100 openings for geographers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study What you study is largely your choice, since only an introductory course is required. You choose the remainder of the required 12 credits from more than three dozen options that cover Arab American studies, the history of Islam in the United States, Arab American identities, culture and global business, religion and culture, gender and globalization, global climate change, immigration in America, the European Union, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, international security, and America in a global society, among other topics. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs International Studies, BA Middle East Studies, BA African and African American Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit