Data Science/Economics, Dual BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Data Science/Economics, Dual BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn How to Drive Economic Decisions with DataIf you want to crunch big data to help make big economic decisions, our dual undergraduate degrees in data science and economics at the University of Michigan-Dearborn are for you. You’ll tackle everything from computer programming to modeling to microeconomics, giving you a formidable array of skills and knowledge that will make you a prime candidate for a huge variety of jobs.You earn both degrees at the same time. The combined degrees require 135 credits–just 15 more than you need for either degree alone. You can pick up the additional credits by taking one extra class most semesters or adding a single semester to your program.Where Data Science/Economics Degrees Will Take MeWith data and economics powering so many decisions today, dual degrees in data science and economics will give you powerful credentials to stand out in the job market. The versatility of your degrees will open up a multitude of career paths in business and finance, health care, social sciences, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and many other fields. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Data Scientists Economists Mathematicians and Statisticians Actuaries Market Research Analysts Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Economists $115,440 Median SalaryEconomists (master’s usually required) Employment of economists is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 900 openings for economists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians (master’s usually required) Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Market Research Analysts $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analysts Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study For the data science degree, you’ll explore fields like programming, mathematics and statistics, and modeling. For the economics degree, what you study is mostly up to you. You can choose courses for your degree from a diverse set of classes, such as Environmental Economics, Public Finance, Health Economics, International Trade, Behavioral Economics, and Money and Banking. You choose most of the courses for your degree, allowing you to customize your studies to complement your data science courses and give you the maximum bang from your dual degrees. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your courses will provide opportunities to gain real-life experience, putting theories into practice. You also may conduct research in our Behavioral and Experimental Economics and Policy Laboratory or pursue an Economics Internship, where you gain experience with a business, nonprofit organization, or government agency.More hands-on experiences are available in the general research and study abroad programs and in the internship program offered by CASL and the co-op education program offered by CECS. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, there are endless opportunities to get involved. You can join the Economics Club, participate in research projects with your professors, explore general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much more. Programs Offered Beyond BS Data Science, MS Business Analytics, MS Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) Related Programs Economics, BA/BS Applied Statistics, BA/BS Economics and Computation, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit