Industrial and Systems Engineering, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Industrial and Systems Engineering, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Use Science and Technology to Create Complex SystemsIf you like variety in your work, industrial and systems engineering may be a great career to pursue. Historically, industrial and systems engineers worked in manufacturing industries, but today they design and improve the performance of systems in a wide spectrum of fields, including service, energy, transportation, finance, and health care. While their quantitative methods and organizational skills remain highly valued in manufacturing industries, their scope now extends to finding solutions for the endless variety of problems of modern industrial society.Our bachelor’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn bridges engineering knowledge, management principles, physical and social sciences, and the life sciences. It stresses a scientific and technological approach to designing, developing, and operating both large-scale and small-scale systems.The BSE in Industrial and Systems Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Industrial and Similarly Named Engineering Programs Systems and Similarly Named Engineering Programs.Want to expand your job opportunities? Consider pursuing a dual BSE in industrial and systems engineering and manufacturing engineering. Where an Industrial and Systems Engineering Degree Will Take YouGraduates of our program are well-prepared for careers that require problem-solving, decision-making, and process improvement. With skills in systems modeling, simulation, optimization, quality engineering, and human factors, you’ll be ready to tackle challenges across industries that are looking for efficiency, innovation, and better performance. Many students also gain practical experience through internships or co-ops. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Operations Research Analysts Industrial Production Managers Logisticians Health and Safety Engineers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Logisticians $80,880 Median SalaryLogisticians Employment of logisticians is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 26,400 openings for logisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health and Safety Engineers $109,660 Median SalaryHealth and Safety Engineers Employment of health and safety engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for health and safety engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You’ll learn how to design, develop, evaluate, improve, and operate integrated systems that produce or supply products or services in an effective, efficient, sustainable, and socially responsible manner. The core courses for your degree will cover subjects like operations research, engineering probability and statistics, manufacturing processes, applied statistical models in engineering, human factors and ergonomics, systems engineering, Six Sigma, facilities design, and lean manufacturing, among others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You’ll explore case studies in your classes and have other opportunities to put into practice what you’re learning. More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Accreditation The BSE in Industrial and Systems Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Industrial and Similarly Named Engineering Programs Systems and Similarly Named Engineering Programs. Educational Objectives Consistent with providing a strong academic foundation in the field of industrial and systems engineering, the program educational objectives for our graduates are:To remain gainfully employed in industrial and systems engineering related fields,To continue to develop professionally, andTo serve in leadership roles Student Outcomes An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematicsAn ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factorsAn ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiencesAn ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contextsAn ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectivesAn ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusionsAn ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies Student Enrollment and Graduation Data BSE industrial and systems engineering annual program student enrollment and graduation data is posted to the public on the College of Engineering and Computer Science website. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science alum Katherine Gonzalez Hauswedell talks about the breadth and diversity of the ISE program and the impacts on her career. How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Alpha Pi Mu, the Institute of Industrial Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Related Programs Manufacturing Engineering, BSE Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Human-Centered Engineering Design, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit