Alumni We are UM-Dearborn alumni, belonging to one of the world’s greatest alumni families, and we each have our own success story. Breadcrumb Home Alumni In this section In this section Alumni Toggle Submenu Get Involved Toggle Submenu Alumni Affiliates Alumni resources to keep you connected Celebrating Alumni Toggle Submenu Alumni Authors 2024 UM-Dearborn Holiday Gift Guide Alumni Benefits Toggle Submenu Alumni Legacy Scholarship Alumni FAQs Meet the Team Alumni Society Board We are engineers, revolutionizing the automobile industry. We are educators, transforming the classroom and molding future leaders. We are scientists, conducting groundbreaking environmental research. We are industry leaders, revitalizing the economy through creative business practices. Go Blue! Get Involved UM-Dearborn alumni live and work in hundreds of cities across the globe. Stay connected with fellow alumni and campus through a variety of activities, groups, and boards. Update your contact information to be sure you stay in touch with us. Nominate a passionate and dedicated alum to join our Alumni Society Board! Honoring Dr. Martin Luther King during MLK Week of Events Share your great news. Submit your Class Notes today! Giving Back to UM-Dearborn University of Michigan-Dearborn has made a profound impact on thousands of students. Be a part of that impact by volunteering and supporting the university’s ongoing efforts. Give Now UM-Dearborn License Plates Get Involved Connect with us on Social Media Instagram X (formerly Twitter) Facebook Linkedin Alumni Resources and Benefits UM-Dearborn alumni can take advantage of a number of resources and benefits, including access to job postings, athletic ticket information and career development. Benefits Summary UM-Dearborn Athletics U-M Ann Arbor Athletics Career Services Wellness Center Library Alumni Services Need an official transcript or a new diploma? Help is just a click away. Request Transcript Request Diploma Copy Football Tickets FAQ Further Your Education Continue to thrive with the help of our talented faculty and strong relationships with industry partners, even after you graduate. We offer an array of continuing education opportunities, as well as graduate courses to further enhance career development. Graduate Studies Graduate Admissions Alumni Enrichment Program Michigan Online Alumni Association Happenings Alumni Association Career Webinars Alumni Association Events New Grad Membership to the U-M Alumni Association Publications UM-Dearborn News How to Reach Us We are conducting university business in-person and virtually. Our contact information is below.Our office hours are Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.To schedule a time to meet with a member of the alumni engagement team, please call 313-593-5131 or email [email protected]. Office of Alumni Engagement instagram youtube twitter facebook 1090 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5131 [email protected]