Human-Centered Engineering Design, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Human-Centered Engineering Design, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet our Faculty Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science We Shape the Future with Hands-On Engineering, Innovative Solutions, and Aesthetic Designs That Empower PeopleOur Human-Centered Engineering Design (HCED) program equips students with the tools to solve complex problems using the design thinking process. This process empowers engineers with a strong technical foundation to research, identify, translate, and document user needs. It guides them to generate innovative product and process design ideas that address user requirements, while scientifically evaluating the usability and effectiveness of these solutions.HCED is an interdisciplinary field that bridges human-centered design, engineering, art, social sciences, and business principles. The program emphasizes interactive, iterative, and creative problem-solving, enabling students to develop products and systems that resonate deeply with user needs by fostering empathy and understanding.This human-centered approach is rapidly being adopted across industries such as automotive, aerospace, healthcare, information technology, software, consumer electronics, digital marketing, and e-commerce. As a result, our graduates are well-positioned to pursue diverse and exciting career opportunities in these and other fields.Where a Human-Centered Engineering Design Degree Will Take YouThe diverse nature of human-centered engineering design means you will have a wide range of industries to choose from for your career. Your combination of engineering expertise and empathy with customers and their needs will make you a valued member of teams across the industrial spectrum. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Industrial Engineers Industrial Designers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Designers $79,450 Median SalaryIndustrial Designers Employment of industrial designers is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 2,500 openings for industrial designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Your courses will provide a deep understanding of creative problem solving, the design process, design communication, art design, qualitative and quantitative research methods in need finding, usability engineering, human factors engineering, and prototyping, among other subjects.You must choose a concentration from five options:Mechanical Engineering DesignElectrical Engineering DesignSoftware Engineering and HCI DesignSystem Engineering DesignIndividualized Design Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Human-centered engineering design is a hands-on design program. You’ll have at least one studio class per year, as well as project-based classes. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Earn Your Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in Five Years (4+1) An accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in human-centered engineering design in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to nine credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits in your human-centered engineering design program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and meet other requirements. Accreditation The Human-Centered Engineering Design (HCED) program was accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET under the commission’s General Criteria with no applicable program criteria. Educational Objectives Consistent with providing a strong academic foundation in the field of Human-Centered Engineering, the program educational objectives for our graduates are: To remain gainfully employed in Human-Centered Engineering Design related fields,To continue to develop professionally, andTo serve in leadership roles. Student Outcomes An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematicsAn ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factorsAn ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiencesAn ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contextsAn ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectivesAn ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusionsAn ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies Student Enrollment and Graduation Data BSE Human-Centered Engineering Design annual program student enrollment and graduation data is posted to the public on the College of Engineering and Computer Science website. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science student Hunter McCray discusses his experience while completing the BSE in Human-Centered Engineering Design program. How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Alpha Pi Mu, the Institute of Industrial Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit