Environmental Science, BA/BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Environmental Science, BA/BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Get Valuable Hands-On ExperiencesExplore environmental problems and solutions by incorporating perspectives from a variety of disciplines, including biology, chemistry, geological sciences, and the social sciences in our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. We’ve designed it based on the philosophy that a strong, broad foundation in science is the best preparation for careers in environmental fields or for graduate studies.You’ll have plenty of hands-on experiences in our program, which emphasizes immersive activities such as internships, field studies, research with faculty, and community engagement.Where an Environmental Science Degree Will Take YouIt will prepare you for a variety of fulfilling careers in state and national government agencies, local conservation agencies, environmental consulting firms, nonprofit organizations working in resource management and advocacy, firms engaged in waste management, and education, among others. You’ll also have a solid foundation for graduate studies in numerous fields, including our master’s degree program in environmental science at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Environmental Scientists and Specialists Environmental Science and Protection Technicians Conservation Scientists and Foresters Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists Environmental Engineers Environmental Scientists and Specialists $80,060 Median SalaryEnvironmental Scientists and Specialists Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for environmental scientists and specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Science and Protection Technicians $49,490 Median SalaryEnvironmental Science and Protection Technicians Employment of environmental science and protection technicians is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 5,600 openings for environmental science and protection technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Conservation Scientists and Foresters $69,060 Median SalaryConservation Scientists and Foresters Overall employment of conservation scientists and foresters is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,600 openings for conservation scientists and foresters are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists $72,860 Median SalaryZoologists and Wildlife Biologists Employment of zoologists and wildlife biologists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 1,400 openings for zoologists and wildlife biologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Engineers $104,170 Median SalaryEnvironmental Engineers Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,000 openings for environmental engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Besides taking core courses in environmental science, you’ll choose one of three concentrations:The Ecosystem Sciences concentration focuses on understanding interactions among biological, physical, and chemical processes of the world’s ecosystems and exploring ways to manage them sustainably. Students earn a BS degree.The Environmental and Sustainability Studies concentration integrates the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities to explore the impacts of humans on the environment and find sustainable solutions. Students earn a BA degree.The Geosciences concentration focuses on natural hazards, natural resources, and environmental change, among other topics. Students earn a BS degree. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our program emphasizes experiential learning to give you practical experiences that can enhance your resume and increase your employability. Our extensive network of laboratories and learning centers ensures you’ll have plenty of opportunities to take what you've learned in the classroom and apply it to real-world scenarios. Our facilities include 10 teaching laboratories, 18 research laboratories, the Science Learning Center, the Environmental Interpretive Center, the 120-acre Environmental Study Area, a greenhouse, and many others.You also can get your hands dirty with immersive activities such as internships, fieldwork, and research with faculty. Put what you've learned into practice and make tangible changes in our community with our community engagement opportunities. Yet more hands-on experiences are available working as a student employee at the Environmental Interpretive Center, a consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, or a laboratory preparation assistant. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 16 credits of upper-level courses in environmental science (ESCI). Two courses are required, and you choose two others.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee The field of environmental science is focused on solving environmental problems using all these different interdisciplinary approaches. KAITLYN TATRO, ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage students to get involved both on and off campus. You can join student organizations such as the Restoration Ecology Club, Biochemistry Society, and Biology Club, among about 150 others; help your friends register to vote; volunteer for a variety of community outreach activities; and much more. Programs Offered Beyond BA Environmental Science, MS Related Programs Biological Sciences, BS Microbiology, BS Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit