CIS Mathematics, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program CIS Mathematics, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Get a Concurrent Degree to Boost Your Skills and ProspectsAs an undergraduate UM-Dearborn student, you can pursue a concurrent degree in CIS Mathematics if you’re pursuing one of the following majors:Computer and Information ScienceSoftware EngineeringCybersecurity and Information AssuranceThe CIS Mathematics degree requires a minimum of 15 additional credits in advanced mathematics courses beyond the 15 credits required for your primary degree. Only two of the courses for the concurrent degree are required. You choose the remaining minimum of 8-9 credits from two dozen courses, giving you flexibility to choose courses that meet your personal interests and professional goals. Both degrees must be earned at the same time.Where a CIS Mathematics Will Take You?A concurrent degree in CIS Mathematics opens up a world of opportunities. Our graduates find success in diverse roles, ranging from software developer and data analyst to IT project manager and cybersecurity analyst. Their critical problem-solving skills and comprehensive understanding of mathematical computing solutions make them highly valued employees. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Data Scientists Computer Systems Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Network and Computer Systems Administrators Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study For the elective portion of the concurrent degree, you’ll be able to choose from courses in elementary number theory, cryptography, modern algebra, stochastic processes, mathematical statistics, advanced calculus, and numerical analysis, among many other subjects.Throughout the CIS Mathematics program, you’ll engage in practical learning activities that will enhance your understanding and application of mathematics in computer science. You’ll work on real-world problems, making use of the theoretical knowledge gained in lectures to develop innovative solutions. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Your academic journey doesn't stop at lectures and labs. At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage students to supplement their academic pursuit with involvement in extracurricular activities. You can join clubs and organizations, participate in competitions and events, tutor, or seek an internship. All of these will add substantial value to your educational experience. Related Programs Computer and Information Science, BS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit