Mechanical Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Mechanical Engineering, MSE Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Choose Most of Your Own CoursesWhat do you want to learn about mechanical engineering? It’s pretty much your choice in the master’s in mechanical engineering program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.Aside from a single required course in engineering mathematics and one or two cognate courses, you design the rest of your program. You choose seven or eight mechanical engineering courses from more than 50 options, giving you tremendous flexibility to create an educational program that matches your personal interests and career aspirations. The courses cover both advanced theory and modern engineering practice. You’ll learn from PhD faculty engaged in cutting-edge research and from leading industry experts.You can take classes for the 30-credit master’s degree in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where an MSE in Mechanical Engineering Will Take YouMechanical engineering is one of the degrees most favored by employers, and a master’s degree makes you stand out from other candidates. You’ll find career opportunities in the aerospace, automotive, biomedical device, energy, and microchip manufacturing industries, among many others. Your master’s degree also is great preparation to pursue the PhD in Mechanical Sciences and Engineering that we offer at UM-Dearborn. Program Details What You’ll Study It’s mostly up to you. You’ll take one required course in engineering mathematics and one or two cognate courses. The remaining seven or eight courses you’ll choose from more than 50 options that cover a vast range of subjects: structural dynamics, fluid mechanics, sustainability, combustion processes, thermodynamics, vehicle dynamics, automotive powertrains, fracture and fatigue, batteries, linear systems control, heat transfer, engineering materials, cast metals, composite materials, fuel cells, digital manufacturing, engine emissions, and lots more.If you’re interested in an in-depth study of a specific topic or a faculty-guided research, you may enroll in independent study or master’s thesis courses. The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our program combines theory with practical applications. You’ll use our excellent laboratory facilities for coursework and research projects. We have labs dedicated to acoustics and vibrations, battery technology, internal combustion engines, digital manufacturing, materials design and characterization, thermal management, ballistics, autonomous vehicles, biomechanics, and more.More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available through internships and on-campus research. Talk to your professors to learn more. Online Options The program may be completed entirely online through CECS Online, entirely on-campus, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses. The online courses utilize video streaming of the lectures given on campus. Online students have the opportunity to interact with their instructors and with fellow students (both on campus as well as online) through Canvas, a campus-wide learning management system. The class lectures, notes, and discussions are posted on Canvas for all students' access.You may enroll in online courses without an obligation to join the online program. If you reside in Michigan and seek the flexibility to blend on-campus and web-based courses, consider applying to our regular program. You will be able to register for as many online courses as you desire. Please contact the graduate programs coordinator for more information. Admission Requirements Bachelor of Science (BS) or equivalent degree in engineeringGPA of 3.0 or higherApplicants with a lower GPA or a non-engineering Bachelor degree in science, may be considered for admission consistent with the guidelines.GRE not required.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest.Applicants with lower GPAs or with non-engineering degrees in science or mathematics may be considered for admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Aerospace Engineers Industrial Engineers Materials Engineers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MSE Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Related Programs Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Bioengineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit