Electrical Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Electrical Engineering, MSE ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Boost Your Career Potential With Advanced SkillsThe 30-credit MSE in Electrical Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides specialized training in control systems, wireless networks, digital signal processing, embedded systems, image processing and pattern recognition. You can take classes in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule all classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where an MSE in Electrical Engineering Will Take YouThe program combines intense classroom work with extensive practical exposure, giving you a background that’s eagerly sought after by a variety of industries and research institutions. With the advanced knowledge and skills you gain in the master’s program, you’ll be ready to take on leading roles in creating and developing electrical technologies. Program Details What You’ll Study The MSE in Electrical Engineering program combines theory with practical application to provide you with a thorough understanding of the complex theoretical principles and techniques of science, engineering and mathematics and how they relate to advanced engineering design practices. You'll have the opportunity to specialize in the areas of control systems, wireless networks, digital signal processing, embedded systems, image processing and pattern recognition. In addition to mastering theory, you will become proficient in using the latest electrical engineering technology with access to a dozen engineering labs that include more than 200 state-of-the-art computers, high-performance workstations and the latest software so that you can learn how to use modern devices, software and tools to advance engineering research. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Put your learning into practice with our coursework that includes hands-on labs, projects and research opportunities. Our faculty members are involved in cutting-edge research and often provide students with opportunities to get hands-on experience in their labs.Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of real-world opportunities. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Online Options The Electrical Engineering program is also offered online through CECS Online. The online courses utilize video streaming of the lectures given on campus. The online students have the opportunity to interact with the instructors and with fellow students (both on campus as well as online) through CANVAS. The class lectures, notes, and discussions are posted on CANVAS for online students' access. Admission Requirements Bachelor's degree in Electrical and/or Computer Engineering with an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher.Students whose undergraduate background is in a field other than Electrical or Computer Engineering may be granted admission and required to take preparatory courses in electrical and/or computer engineeringGRE not requiredLetters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Engineers Computer Hardware Engineers Computer Network Architects Network and Computer Systems Administrators Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Hardware Engineers $155,020 Median SalaryComputer Hardware Engineers Employment of computer hardware engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,700 openings for computer hardware engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MSE Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Computer and Information Science, PhD Related Programs Computer Engineering, MSE Robotics Engineering, MSE Computer and Information Science, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit