Behavioral and Biological Sciences, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Behavioral and Biological Sciences, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Behavioral Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters What Factors Influence Human and Animal Behavior?Bridge the divide between psychological and biological sciences, focusing on the fascinating dynamics of human and animal behavior, in our behavioral and biological sciences program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll investigate the intersections between biochemistry, psychology, genetics, neurobiology, behavior, immunology, and anthropology, in addition to exploring ethical considerations and implications of research.Where a Behavioral and Biological Sciences Degree Will Take YouThe field of behavioral and biological sciences is a rapidly growing area of cutting-edge research and treatment. Your degree will position you to pursue a broad range of careers in education, business, research, and other areas. It also provides a solid foundation for graduate school or professional training, such as medical school. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Biochemists and Biophysicists Psychologists Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists Microbiologists Epidemiologists Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists (Ph.D. usually required) Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Psychologists $94,310 Median SalaryPsychologists (master’s or Ph.D. usually required) Overall employment of psychologists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 12,900 openings for psychologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists $72,860 Median SalaryZoologists and Wildlife Biologists Employment of zoologists and wildlife biologists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 1,400 openings for zoologists and wildlife biologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Microbiologists $87,330 Median SalaryMicrobiologists Employment of microbiologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,700 openings for microbiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Epidemiologists $83,980 Median SalaryEpidemiologists (master’s usually required) Employment of epidemiologists is projected to grow 16 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 800 openings for epidemiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The major requires 25 credits of prerequisites in psychology, biology, and chemistry. For the major itself, which requires a minimum of 37 credits, you may study biochemistry, cell biology, genetics, cognitive neuroscience, biological anthropology and human evolution, animal learning and cognition, physiological psychology, cognitive neuroscience, learning and memory, nutrition and health, epidemiology, ethics in research, biostatistics, and experimental psychology, among other subjects. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Your coursework will include hands-on laboratory courses to help you put what you’re learning into practice. Our extensive network of laboratories and learning centers includes 10 teaching laboratories, 18 research laboratories, the Science Learning Center, the Environmental Interpretive Center, the 120-acre Environmental Study Area, and many other facilities.Other hands-on experiences are available working as a part-time consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, working as a laboratory preparation assistant, and assisting faculty with research. In addition to gaining laboratory and data analysis experience, students who engage in research can present their findings at department, local, and national conferences. Students also have been co-authors on published manuscripts with UM-Dearborn faculty.Finally, some great real-world opportunities are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage you to get involved both on and off campus. From joining student organizations and participating in undergraduate research projects to volunteering within the community, you'll find numerous opportunities to enrich your academic journey and prepare for your future career.Some of the student organizations that may especially interest you include the Undergraduate Society of Psychology and Neuroscience, Biology Club, Minority Association of Pre-Med Students, Phi Delta Epsilon co-ed pre-med fraternity, Pre-Dental Association, Pre-Optometry Club, Pre-PA Association, Pre-Professional Health Society, and the Public Health Society. Related Programs Anthropology, BA Psychology, BA/BS Neuroscience, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit