Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE IMSE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5361(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Boost Your Ability to Organize Large SystemsThis program at UM-Dearborn is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, improving, and evaluating large integrated systems that include people, materials, information, equipment, and energy.You can take classes for the 30-credit degree in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where an MSE in Industrial and Systems Engineering Will Take YouThe degree’s broad scope opens doors in a variety of sectors so you have the freedom to forge your own career path. Manufacturing, logistics, health care, service systems, energy design, ergonomics–take your pick from these and a host of other fields where your knowledge and skills will be highly valued. Program Details What You’ll Study What you study is mostly up to you, since our program offers great flexibility. Only three courses are required:Human Factors and ErgonomicsDesign and Analysis of ExperimentsProduction and Operations Engineering IYou choose the bulk of your courses from dozens of options separated into five concentrations:Human Factors and ErgonomicsOperations Research and Management ScienceQuality Systems and ManufacturingInformation SystemsProgram Management and Product DevelopmentYou can choose all your concentration courses from a single concentration or across any combination of the five areas. The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain The coursework emphasizes practice-based learning, providing you with invaluable real-world experience and insights. You’ll have the chance to apply your theoretical knowledge, gain practical skills, and work on real-life projects.More opportunities for hands-on experiences is available in our research programs. Check out the page for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree in engineering, computer science, applied mathematics, or a physical science. Students with degrees in other areas may be admitted but required to take preparatory courses.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest.Prerequisite CoursesA course in probability and statistics (IMSE 510, Probability and Statistical Models or equivalent)A course in operations research (IMSE 500, Models of Operations Research or equivalent)The IMSE 510 and IMSE 500 course requirements can be completed after admission into the program. Both IMSE 500 and IMSE 510 will count toward the 30-credit degree requirement. IMSE 500 will count towards the program concentration requirements and IMSE 510 will count as a program elective. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Operations Research Analysts Industrial Production Managers Logisticians Health and Safety Engineers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Logisticians $80,880 Median SalaryLogisticians Employment of logisticians is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 26,400 openings for logisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health and Safety Engineers $109,660 Median SalaryHealth and Safety Engineers Employment of health and safety engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for health and safety engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science graduate student Emmanuella Ejichukwu discusses the versatility of the ISE program, and how it prepares graduates to reach their career goals. Programs Offered Beyond MSE Computer and Information Science, PhD Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Related Programs Engineering Management, MS Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Program and Project Management, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit