Breadcrumb Home News Your Spring 2026 Commencement guide Your Spring 2026 Commencement guide April 6, 2026 Spring Commencement is almost here. Meet the speakers and get key details for the May 2 ceremonies. This spring, the university is awarding a total of 1,090 degrees to 1,072 graduates. Photo by Matthew Stephens The newest graduates of the University of Michigan-Dearborn will officially join U-M’s alumni network of more than 695,000 at commencement on May 2. UM-Dearborn will honor 1,072 degree candidates who are collectively earning 1,090 degrees. The first ceremony of the day, which begins at 9 a.m. recognizes undergraduate students from the College of Arts, Sciences and Letters and the College of Business. The second ceremony, which starts at 1 p.m., celebrates undergraduate students from the College of Education, Health and Human Services and the College of Engineering and Computer Science. The final ceremony, for doctoral and graduate students from all four colleges, begins at 5 p.m. Doors open one hour before the start time of each ceremony.Here’s everything else you need to know to prepare for the big day. SpeakersEric Ham, ’95 BA, will give the undergraduate keynote addresses. Ham is a bestselling author, columnist and news anchor. Over the past decade, he has covered many of the biggest news stories from the U.S. and around the world. Working for some of the most respected media outlets, he has reported on groundbreaking events, including presidential elections, the COVID-19 pandemic and U.S. government shutdowns. He has served as a White House correspondent for The Associated Press, a U.S. political analyst for BBC News, a host on the Sirius XM Radio POTUS channel, an anchor of Firstpost America and a columnist for Canada’s CTV.Prior to his time as a journalist, Ham spent years in Washington working on foreign policy and national security affairs. At the height of the Iraq War, he was a staffer in the U.S. Congress, where he served as an aide to former Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida. During his time on Capitol Hill, his portfolio consisted of military affairs and international relations. He also led the government relations department for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, one of the world’s premier defense and global policy think tanks. He chaired the Security and Development Work Group for the Society for International Development and served as the executive director of the Fragile State Strategy Group.The University of Michigan-Dearborn provided the academic and theoretical foundation for Ham’s lifelong career in politics. The university’s Political Science department jumpstarted those efforts, beginning with an internship in the Government Affairs office at Chrysler Corp. Upon graduation, Ham secured his first official role in government working as a legislative aide in the Michigan Legislature. The job offer came after a six-hour interview with a state lawmaker that took place in the offices of UM-Dearborn’s Political Science department. Ham is a graduate of UM-Dearborn and the University of Chicago. He resides in Washington, D.C. Bruce R. Maxim, professor of Computer and Information Science and Narasimhamurthi “Nattu” Natarajan Collegiate Professor of Engineering at UM-Dearborn, will give the keynote speech for the doctoral and graduate ceremony. His research interests include software engineering, user experience design, serious game development, virtual reality, social media, artificial intelligence and engineering education. He has published several papers on the animation of computer algorithms, software quality assurance, game development and educational computing applications. He is co-author of a best-selling introductory computer science text and the world's most popular software engineering text. He has served as co-editor of three collections of software engineering research papers.Maxim is the architect of the ABET-accredited computer science curriculum and the ABET-accredited software engineering curriculum at UM-Dearborn. He is the creator of 28 computer and information science courses dealing with software engineering, game design, artificial intelligence, user interface design, web engineering, software quality and computer programming. He also serves as the faculty advisor to several UM-Dearborn student groups, including the computing honor society (Upsilon Pi Epsilon), (Game) Developers of Dearborn, and the Google Developer Student Club.Prior to joining UM-Dearborn, Maxim’s professional experience included managing research information systems at a medical school, directing instructional computing activities for a medical campus and working as a statistical programmer in a department of epidemiology. He also served as the chief technology officer for a game development company. He has received several distinguished teaching awards, distinguished faculty governance awards and distinguished service awards.Rehab Jadallah, an honors student graduating with dual Bachelor of Science degrees in computer and information science and in CIS mathematics, is the student speaker for the undergraduate ceremonies. During her time at the UM-Dearborn, she combined academic excellence with leadership, research and service across campus and the broader community.Jadallah was a Michigan Council of Women in Technology scholar and student ambassador, representing women in engineering at statewide professional events and delivering a keynote address to more than 750 attendees at the organization’s annual gala. She also founded the Arab Affairs League at UM-Dearborn and earned recognition as an award-winning delegate in Model Arab League. She has conducted research through the Grand Challenges Scholars Program, developing a virtual reality accessibility simulation, and mentors K-12 students through STEM programs focused on coding and robotics.After graduation, Jadallah will pursue a master’s degree in computer science and begin her career as a software engineer at Stryker.Ana Karla Albisua Bermudez, who is graduating with a Master of Science in engineering management, is the student speaker for the doctoral and graduate ceremony. Her graduate studies have focused on the intersection of engineering, business strategy and organizational leadership.Born and raised in Puebla, Mexico, she completed her undergraduate studies at Universidad Iberoamericana Puebla, earning a bachelor’s degree in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. She graduated at the top of her class and received the Medal of Honor “Francisco Javier Clavijero,” one of the university’s highest academic distinctions. During her studies, she also spent a year abroad at Deggendorf Institute of Technology and completed an internship at the BMW Group manufacturing plant in Dingolfing, Germany.Bermudez began her career in the automotive industry as a Development Engineer, working on automotive interior systems before transitioning into Program Management. She currently serves as a Program Manager at Lear Corporation, where she leads cross-functional teams delivering complex engineering programs for major automotive manufacturers.Committed to service and community engagement, she has participated in Jesuit missionary outreach programs in rural communities in Mexico and volunteers with Alternatives for Girls in Detroit. She is also a marathon runner who supports youth development initiatives through fundraising for Grassroot Soccer.TicketsEach graduate may receive up to four tickets for the ceremony; graduates do not need a ticket for themselves. Children ages 2 or younger, who will be seated on a lap, do not need a ticket.If a student or a guest requires extra aid, like wheelchair-assistance, for the event, email the commencement team. ASL interpretation and closed captioning will be provided for all ceremonies.If students haven’t picked up their tickets yet, they can get them at the One Stop, located inside the Renick University Center on the first floor. They need to make sure to bring their cap-and-gown receipt and a state-issued ID, passport or MCard. One Stop hours are from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Wednesday and Friday. Thursday hours are from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. If a student is unable to come to campus prior to commencement, they should email commencement staff by April 17 for tickets to be placed in Will Call, where they can be picked up at the Fieldhouse on the day of the ceremony. Students need to pick up or reserve tickets by April 17, or they will be considered unclaimed.Looking for extra tickets? Information about extra tickets, if available, will be shared with students on Monday, April 20. ParkingParking is available in lots E7, E6 and E5 on the north side of the Fieldhouse. There is no fee for parking. Northbound Evergreen Road is closed to traffic from Michigan Avenue as part of ongoing bridge repair work. All UM-Dearborn traffic coming from Michigan Avenue (westbound and eastbound) will be detoured to M-39 to the Southfield Service drive. From there, drivers will be directed west on Hubbard Drive, then south on Evergreen Road. Please refer to campus maps and directions for the most up-to-date information and follow posted signage the day of commencement.Photography and videographyPhotography and videography will take place during the ceremonies. Images may be shared on UM-Dearborn’s social media, website or other platforms and/or used for marketing purposes. Any graduate or guest who does not wish to appear in a close-up image may alert the photographer or videographer, who will do their best to accommodate. Any attendee may appear in crowd shots of the day. This event will also be livestreamed. The livestream will be posted after the event.Watching the ceremonyIf you won't be attending in person, you can still watch all three commencement ceremonies online on UM-Dearborn's YouTube page. Story by Kathryn Bourlier Kronner Share facebook twitter linkedin Related News Current News 4/6/2026 AI education research leads to a UM-Dearborn first Industrial and Systems Engineering doctoral student Ella Ejichukwu’s research into how AI affects classroom experiences has led to her induction into the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society — a first for a UM-Dearborn student.... 4/3/2026 Office of Research update: April 2026 See which UM-Dearborn projects have been funded, get important information, and learn about new opportunities and events.... 3/31/2026 Campus Colleagues: Christine Dunning Christine Dunning keeps things running smoothly in COB — much as if she’s running her own enterprise. The assistant to the dean relies on lessons from her parents, who owned Standard Paper Company for 50 years....