Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Develop New Materials to Advance TechnologyObtain a comprehensive background in materials science and advanced engineering applications in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The development of new materials drives innovations across many industries, and is especially critical to the automotive industry. The knowledge and skills you gain in your master’s degree program will put you on the front lines of this exciting field.Our program offers maximum flexibility, letting you take classes online, in person, or a combination of both. Almost all classes are held in the evening. The courses cover both advanced theory and modern engineering practice. You’ll learn from PhD faculty engaged in cutting-edge research and from leading industry experts.Where an MSE in Materials Science and Engineering Will Take YouYou’ll enter the workforce with comprehensive mastery in the field, equipped to apply the latest scientific advances, the newest techniques, and modern engineering tools in your professional endeavors. The courses will not only teach you about advanced technologies, but also how to apply them for creative design and problem solving. Program Details What You’ll Study Materials Science and Engineering is an interdisciplinary field that enables advances in the development and application of materials in engineering practice. Technological innovations are directly linked to the understanding of materials and are required to meet next generational challenges. Advances in nanomaterials, energy storage materials, functional and sensory materials, and lightweight structural materials will enable further development of practically all technology fields. Students in this program will not only learn about advanced technologies, but also how to apply them in practice for creative design and problem solving.Students interested in an in-depth study of a specific topic or a faculty-guided research, may enroll in independent study or master’s thesis courses. The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain This program strongly emphasizes hands-on, practical learning experiences. In the classroom and our extensive laboratory facilities, you’ll learn to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world challenges, building proficiency in advanced techniques and tools used in the profession.More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available in through internships and on-campus research. Online Options The program may be completed entirely online through CECS Online, entirely on-campus, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses. The online courses utilize video streaming of the lectures given on campus. Online students have the opportunity to interact with their instructors and with fellow students (both on campus as well as online) through Canvas, a campus-wide learning management system. The class lectures, notes, and discussions are posted on Canvas for all students' access.You may enroll in online courses without an obligation to join the online program. If you reside in Michigan and seek the flexibility to blend on-campus and web-based courses, consider applying to our regular program. You will be able to register for as many online courses as you desire. Please contact the graduate programs coordinator for more information. Admission Requirements Bachelor of Science (BS) or equivalent degree in engineeringGPA of 3.0 or higherApplicants with lower GPAs or with non-engineering degrees in science or mathematics may be considered for admission.GRE not required.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Materials Engineers Aerospace Engineers Mechanical Engineers Industrial Engineers Industrial Production Managers Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. UM-Dearborn | CECS | MSE in Materials Science and Engineering Programs Offered Beyond MSE Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Related Programs Mechanical Engineering, MSE Bioengineering, MSE Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit