Comparative Literature, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Comparative Literature, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore the World Through LiteratureDive into outstanding literature from around the world in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll read world-class texts in translation, deepening your understanding of different nations and cultures.With a comparative literature certificate from UM-Dearborn, you’ll be equipped with critical and comparative analysis skills, making you an ideal candidate for a variety of jobs. Whether you wish to pursue a career in academia, writing, translation, international relations, or any field requiring a deep understanding of culture and language, our program will give you the necessary foundation to succeed.Before enrolling in the certificate program, you must:Meet with the comparative literature certificate advisorBring an unofficial copy of your transcript showing a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5Complete an application formComplete the equivalent of fourth-semester Arabic, French, German, or Spanish Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Writers and Authors Editors Interpreters and Translators Public Relations Specialists Librarians and Library Media Specialists Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Editors $75,260 Median SalaryEditors Employment of editors is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 9,800 openings for editors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Librarians and Library Media Specialists $64,320 Median SalaryLibrarians and Library Media Specialists Employment of librarians and library media specialists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 13,500 openings for librarians and library media specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study It’s up to you. You choose three upper-level courses from more than 50 options. They cover a huge range of subjects, including Arab literature, literary criticism, French literature, classic and romantic German literature, contemporary German culture, Latino literature, Spanish literature, Arabic translation, Arabic literature and culture, Arabic cinema, visual narratives, French theater, writing and translating, and Spanish film, among others. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs International Studies, BA Global Cultures, Minor/Concentration Comparative Literature, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit