English, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program English, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Does Literature Shape Our Reality?Our English program at UM-Dearborn is about the dynamic intersection of language, literature and society. It's about the power of words and the impact they have on our world. As an English major, you’ll engage with a faculty of innovative educators and active scholars who will guide you in developing a deep understanding of the strategies used by writers to shape our conceptions of truth.Where an English Degree Will Take YouOur English graduates go on to a wide array of careers as editors, writers, publishers, public relations professionals, digital copywriters, search engine marketers, and more. Our program prepares you with the skills needed for the modern workplace, such as reading, writing, and conducting research. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Editors Writers and Authors News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Public Relations Specialists Technical Writers Editors $75,260 Median SalaryEditors Employment of editors is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 9,800 openings for editors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Technical Writers $91,670 Median SalaryTechnical Writers Employment of technical writers is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 4,500 openings for technical writers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study As an English major, you'll learn to apply a close reading to texts, analyze and interpret what you read, and develop strong arguments about the material. You'll delve into the intricacies of language and literature and explore their societal impacts. Whether your interests lie in British and American literature, world literature, or even the classics, our courses cover a diverse range of genres and periods. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Demonstrate facility at “close reading,” reading texts for denotative and connotative meaning, and the use of appropriate literary concepts and terms.Develop the ability to use writing to analyze, interpret and make arguments about texts.Develop the ability to conduct and incorporate research into writing about texts, providing appropriate documentation.Develop the ability to apply critical theories and methodologies to texts.Develop an understanding of the relationship between works of literature and the cultures in which they are embedded.Develop understanding of literary genres and traditions and the role of diverse voices within the traditional literary canon.You'll have opportunities to apply your learning through internships and independent studies. In fact, every English major must complete a research requirement, either through a research-intensive English course or an independent study. More hands-on experiences are available in our research and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 15 credits of upper-level courses you choose in English (ENGL).Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee I chose to study English because I love reading and writing; it comes natural to me. CHANDLER JECHURA, ENGLISH MAJOR Related Programs Journalism and Media Production, BA Communication, BA Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit