Breadcrumb Home Admissions & Aid Paying for College In this section In this section Admissions & Aid Toggle Submenu Undergraduate Graduate Campus Visits & Events Paying for College Toggle Submenu First-Year In-State Scholarships Non-Resident (First-Year, Transfer and International) Scholarships Transfer In-State Scholarships Contact Admissions Paying for College Value of a University of Michigan-Dearborn Degree UM-Dearborn makes a Michigan degree accessible and affordable. College is an investment in your future, and we recognize the importance of choosing a university that offers you a return on that investment. Our financial aid model is needs-first and our students graduate with the second-lowest amount of debt among the 15 public universities in our state. With 88% of our students receiving financial aid, we are laser focused on helping our students get a jump-start on success by launching their careers with little to no debt. Tuition and Fee Estimates The full cost of attendance breakdown can be found on our Cost of Attendance website. Michigan Residents Resident Cost BreakdownDescriptionCostTuition & Fees*:$16,240Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment:$1,300Total Undergraduate Cost:$17,540*Based on 2025-2026 actual lower division undergraduate actual costs, full time enrollment (15 credit hours, two semesters). Fees include required tuition and registration fees. The tuition and registration fee is subject to change by the University of Michigan Board of Regents and will vary with each student. Non-Michigan Residents Non-Michigan Resident Cost BreakdownDescriptionCostTuition & Fees*:$34,162Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment:$1,300Total Undergraduate Cost:$35,462*Based on 2025-2026 actual lower division undergraduate actual costs, full time enrollment (15 credit hours, two semesters). Fees include required tuition and registration fees. The tuition and registration fee is subject to change by the University of Michigan Board of Regents and will vary with each student. Tuition and Fee Schedules Financial Aid 88% of incoming students receive some form of financial aid to help them enroll in and graduate from college.Financial Aid is any source of funds available to help you pay for college. Whether you’re an incoming or a current student, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships is here to help you discover ways to pay for college through federal, state, university, and private sources. OFAS maintains multiple financial aid resources that are used to help pay for tuition, books, and other cost of living expenses. File the FAFSA and Get Help Paying for School The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is your key to need-based financial aid like scholarships, grants, work-study, and loans. It's money from the government and University of Michigan-Dearborn to help you pay for college.Below provides a timeline. Explore Paying for College* Complete the Net Price Calculator to get an early estimate.Explore here to review our tuition free Go Blue Guarantee program and typical tuition support offered to all Michigan families beyond the Go Blue Guarantee.Explore how financial aid works and options to pay for college.*This timeline is reflective of an undergraduate starting in the Fall semester. File the FAFSA Determine what financial assistance you qualify for.Review updates and helpful information on completing the FAFSA.File the FAFSA (complete during your senior year - opens October 1, 2025 for the 2026-2027 academic year)Use School Code: 002326 to send the FAFSA to UM-DearbornPriority filing by December 1, but estimates will be provided through July 1. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. Everyone is encouraged to file the FAFSA since most Wolverines receive at least one type of need-based financial aid after filing their FAFSA.We encourage all students and families to file the FAFSA as our commitment to making our education affordable ensures funding is based on a families ability to pay. Review Aid Offer Admitted students with a FAFSA on file will receive an email to view the personalized digital aid summary, starting in January, with rolling offers weekly through July. This digital offer is designed to assist you in comparing costs, as we know the financial commitment you make is a critical part of any college decision.Overview of Digital OfferCompare Offers: Families are encouraged to figure out their Net Price (or net cost) as they weigh their college options. You’ve Confirmed your Spot! We’re excited to have you join the UM-Dearborn community! During summer, official costs and aid packages are sentUniversity of Michigan-Dearborn official tuition and fees are announced by early July. At that time, all deposited and enrolling students will receive their billing statement and official financial aid package. Students will also receive detailed guidance on the next steps to finalize their financial aid and/or enroll in an installment payment plan to help manage their educational costs at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Scholarships By Student Type First-Year In-State Students Transfer In-State Students Non-Resident (First-Year, Transfer and International) Other Ways to Afford UM-Dearborn Paying for college isn’t one-size-fits-all. In addition to traditional financial aid, UM-Dearborn offers flexible payment options, outside resources, and other programs to help you manage costs. State of Michigan Programs Veteran Benefits Work-Study Types of Aid Comeback to Dearborn Loans University of Michigan Employee Scholarship Scholarship Universe Payment Plans Contact Financial Aid Return on Your Investment at UM-Dearborn The earning power of a University of Michigan degree is continuously proven true by our esteemed alumni. When comparing faculty, quality of education, programs, student life, scholarships, and financial aid, the MICHIGAN degree offers a significant return on investment. Median 10-year earnings, among 15 Michigan public universitiesAccording to the Georgetown University Analysis Average annual costs among 15 public Michigan universitiesAccording to the U.S. Department of Education College Scorecard Amount of student loan debt after graduation among 15 Michigan public universities.Source: Project on Student Debt, an initiative of the Institute for College Access Helpful Calculators Net Price Calculator Graduate Tuition and Funding Expected Family Contribution (EFC) Calculator