Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Financial Analytics, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Financial Analytics, MS College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Financial Analytics 4+1 Dual Degree Programs New for Fall 2025Master Data-Driven Financial StrategiesPrepare to excel in the finance industry with the Master of Science in Financial Analytics at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. This STEM-designated program* combines financial expertise with advanced data analytics and computational skills, empowering you to analyze vast data sets, develop algorithmic strategies, and drive financial solutions. Designed for both full-time and part-time students, the program offers evening classes on campus and several online course options, allowing you to earn your degree on your schedule.Want to jump start your degree? If you’re a current UM-Dearborn undergraduate student and you’ve been admitted to the master’s program, you can take up to six graduate credits during your final undergraduate semester.*We are awaiting US-government approval to issue I-20s for this program. Once approved, we can admit international students requiring F-1 visas. However, we do not yet have a timeline for this approval.Where a Master's in Financial Analytics Will Take YouIn a data-driven world, financial professionals with analytical expertise stand out. From roles as financial analysts and portfolio managers to leadership positions in quantitative analysis and fintech, graduates of this program are prepared to meet the growing demand for professionals who blend financial expertise with data-driven decision-making.The STEM designation* also provides international students with an extended Optional Practical Training (OPT) period, enhancing opportunities for valuable U.S. work experience.Our career support services, global alumni network, and expansive networking opportunities will help you land your dream job. Program Details What You'll Study The curriculum integrates finance fundamentals with advanced data analytics and programming. Core courses include topics like Algorithmic Finance using Python; Derivatives and Risk Management; Banking, Insurance, and Fintech; and Machine Learning for Business Applications.Electives allow students to tailor the program to their interests, from corporate finance to international financial management.The program requires 30-36 credit hours, depending on whether your previous coursework qualifies you to waive foundation courses in accounting, economics, business statistics, and finance. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain This program emphasizes hands-on learning, ensuring you graduate with:Data Analytics Proficiency: Leverage Python and machine learning tools to analyze financial data.Quantitative Expertise: Build models to evaluate assets, portfolios, and risks.Problem-Solving Skills: Apply analytical frameworks to real-world financial challenges.Communication Skills: Present complex financial data effectively to diverse stakeholders.Real-Time Market Data: Use the Bloomberg Finance Lab’s vast data to enhance decision-making in many courses.Bloomberg Certification: Earn Bloomberg Market Concepts certification, a valuable credential in finance. Course Waivers and Transfer Credit Previous coursework deemed substantially similar to ACC 505, BE 530, DS 520 or BA 510, and FIN 531, if completed with a grade of "B" or better, may qualify to waive students from those courses, thereby reducing the length of the program from 36 to 30 credits.In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for previous equivalent graduate coursework can be applied to the degree if those credits have not been counted toward a degree.Waivers and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Domestic applicants:Fall term: August 1Winter term: December 1Summer term: April 1 (part-time students only)International applicants:Fall term: May 1Winter term: September 1(International not eligible for summer admission)Admission is rolling. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term, but applications and materials will be accepted until the posted "Last Day to Submit". View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents Budget Analyst Financial Analysts Financial Managers Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents $78,140 Median SalarySecurities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents Employment of securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 38,100 openings for securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Budget Analyst $87,930 Median SalaryBudget Analyst Employment of budget analysts is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 3,100 openings for budget analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Managers $161,700 Median SalaryFinancial Managers Employment of financial managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,600 openings for financial managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Business Analytics, MS Finance, MS Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Connect with Us