Health and Human Services, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Health and Human Services, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Couple Community and Compassion in Your CareerIf you want to make a meaningful impact on the health and lives of people in your community a Bachelor of Science degree in health and human services from UM-Dearborn will open a huge range of meaningful job opportunities for you. You'll select one of three tracks of specialization - public health, pre-health professions, or human services.The program’s flexibility lets you tailor your studies to perfectly match your career goals and personal interests. With the human services track there’s even an option to complete your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in just five years, saving you time and thousands of dollars in tuition.Where a Health and Human Services Degree Will Take YouYour degree will prepare you to work in public health, social work, child life, addiction and recovery, child and family services, health policy and administration, and related areas. It also can serve as a solid base for further training to become a doctor, physician assistant, pharmacist, physical therapist, occupational therapist, dentist, optometrist, or nurse. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Social Worker Health Education Specialist Social and Community Service Manager Medical and Health Services Manager Rehabilitation Counselor Social Worker $61,330 Median SalarySocial Worker Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health Education Specialist $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialist Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social and Community Service Manager $78,240 Median SalarySocial and Community Service Manager Employment of social and community service managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,600 openings for social and community service managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Medical and Health Services Manager $117,960 Median SalaryMedical and Health Services Manager Employment of medical and health services managers is projected to grow 23 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 62,100 openings for medical and health services managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Rehabilitation Counselor $46,110 Median SalaryRehabilitation Counselor Employment of rehabilitation counselors is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 10,000 openings for rehabilitation counselors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our dynamic, multidisciplinary curriculum encourages active learning and community engagement, bridging the gap between theory and practice. In core courses, you explore evidence-based practice and its real-world application in delivering public health interventions, human services, and medical care to society’s most vulnerable.You can focus your program on classes that best meet your personal and career goals when you choose a concentration:Public healthHuman servicesPre-health professionsUpon graduation, you’ll know how to use best practices to develop, implement, and evaluate programs aimed at helping individuals and groups function more effectively and overcome personal and social challenges. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain To reinforce your learning, we encourage you to pursue internships. We’ll connect you to nonprofit organizations, government agencies, and health care institutions that will provide you with invaluable hands-on experience while you contribute to the community. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) If you choose the human services concentration, you’re eligible to apply for an accelerated 4+1 program in your junior year where you earn a B.S. from UM-Dearborn and a Master of Social Work degree from UM-Ann Arbor in just five years. If accepted, you take four graduate-level social work classes in your senior year that apply toward both degrees, saving you time and up to $12,000 in tuition. Learn more about the 4+1 accelerated program. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Engage with faculty who are renowned for their innovative research, participate in community outreach efforts, and be an integral part of an academic environment that values engagement and service to the community as much as academic excellence. Related Programs Pathway to Child Life Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit