Electrical Engineering, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Electrical Engineering, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Lead Breakthroughs in Electrical EngineeringThat phone call from your friend? You can thank electrical engineers for making it possible. The cruise control on your car? Electrical engineers make it possible. The MRI machine that lets doctors see inside your brain after you take a bad fall? Electrical engineers again.Electronic devices have radically changed our lives. All of their technological advances require high-speed electronic circuits that can receive, transmit, and process electrical signals using circuits and devices developed by electrical engineers. If you’d like to lead the next advances in this dynamic and progressive branch of engineering, a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from UM-Dearborn can make it possible.Want to expand your job opportunities? Consider pursuing a dual BSE in electrical engineering and computer engineering. You can earn two bachelor’s degrees in 141 credits–just 16 credits more than for the electrical engineering degree alone.The UM-Dearborn Bachelor of Science in engineering in electrical engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET.Where an Electrical Engineering Degree Will Take YouA bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from UM-Dearborn prepares you for a wide range of jobs in telecommunications, electric power generation and transmission, development of navigational and electromedical devices, manufacturing of semiconductors and other electronic components, creation of advanced systems for federal government agencies like NASA, and much more. The degree also gives you a solid background for graduate study, such as in our Master of Science in engineering in electrical engineering program at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Engineers Computer Hardware Engineers Computer Network Architects Network and Computer Systems Administrators Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Hardware Engineers $155,020 Median SalaryComputer Hardware Engineers Employment of computer hardware engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,700 openings for computer hardware engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study At UM-Dearborn, we guide our students to understand the controlled application of electricity to solve real problems. Not surprisingly, there are lots of math and science prerequisite courses, including three each in calculus and physics. Your core courses will cover topics like microprocessors and embedded systems, analog and digital communications systems, automatic control systems, digital signal processing, and system design and microcontrollers, among others.You choose 15 credits of professional and technical electives from among more than 30 courses in robotic manipulation, electric machines and drives, electromagnetic compatibility, computer architecture, cloud computing, multimedia technologies, web engineering, renewable electric power systems, wireless communications, thermodynamics, nanoscience and nanotechnology, and many other subjects. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain In your courses, you’ll do everything from tackling real-world problems to working on projects that involve controlling electricity in various applications. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of hands-on experiences for electrical engineering students. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) Starting in Fall 2024, a new accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to nine credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits in your electrical engineering program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and meet other requirements. Accreditation The BSE in Electrical Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Electrical, Computer, Communications, Telecommunication(s) and Similarly Named Engineering Programs. Program Educational Objectives The graduates who receive the BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan-Dearborn are expected to achieve within a few years of graduation the high professional, ethical, and societal goals demonstrated by accomplishing one or more of the objectives described below.Achieve professional growth in an engineering position in regional and national industries. Growth can be evidenced by promotions and appointment in the workplace (management positions, technical specialization), entrepreneurial activities, and consulting activities.Success in advanced engineering studies evidenced by enrollment in graduate courses, completion of graduate degree programs, presentations and publications at professional events, and awards or licenses associated with advanced studies.Realization of impactful achievements in societal roles demonstrated by attainment of community leadership roles, mentoring activities, civic outreach service, and active roles in professional societies. Student Outcomes To achieve the educational objectives, the graduates of the program will have:An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies Student Enrollment and Graduation Data For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BSE-Electrical Engineering program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Computer Engineering, MSE Artificial Intelligence, MS Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Related Programs Computer Engineering, BSE Robotics Engineering, BSE Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit