Data Science, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Data Science, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Become the Go-To Person for AnswersData drives decisions. Today, that’s true more than ever in business, industry, health care, government, nonprofit organizations, and elsewhere. But data is useless without someone to decipher what it means. That someone could be you with a Bachelor of Science in Data Science degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.The volume, variety, and velocity of today’s data and future data streams pose unique challenges and create unique opportunities. They require unprecedented levels of knowledge and skill in programming, mathematics and statistics, modeling, and more–all of which you can gain in our interdisciplinary program.Where a Data Science Degree Will Take YouA degree in Data Science from UM-Dearborn opens a wealth of opportunities. Fields such as health care, business analytics, social sciences, and engineering are clamoring for professionals who can make data-driven decisions. With a proficient understanding of statistical techniques and a facility to handle big data sets, our graduates are well-equipped to meet these demands. They’re also prepared to keep learning and growing through continuing professional development, including pursuit of advanced degrees like the Master of Science in Data Science that we offer at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Data Scientists Database Administrators and Architects Operations Research Analysts Actuaries Survey Researchers Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Survey Researchers $63,380 Median SalarySurvey Researchers Employment of survey researchers is projected to decline 5 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 700 openings for survey researchers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You’ll explore fields like programming, mathematics and statistics, and modeling. Our curriculum focuses on practical understanding and application of analytical methods including linear regression, logistic regression, and data visualization–all taught using real-world data. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our internship, research, and study abroad programs offer a wealth of hands-on experiences for data science students. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Accreditation Education Objectives 1. Our graduates will be qualified for employment in Data Science related fields or other career paths, including industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental organizations, or will be successful graduate students in a program preparing them for such employment.2. Our graduates will be qualified to lead and participate in culturally diverse and inclusive teams, becoming global and ethical collaborators.3. Our graduates will be qualified to participate in continuing professional development through, for example, obtaining continuing education credits, professional registration or certifications, or post-graduate study credits or degrees. Student Outcomes Graduates of the BS in data science program will have the ability to:Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline.Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practices based on legal and ethical principles.Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program’s discipline.Apply theory, techniques, and tools throughout the data analysis lifecycle and employ the resulting knowledge to satisfy stakeholders' needs. Enrollments and Degrees Granted For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BS in Data Science program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BS Artificial Intelligence, MS Data Science, MS Related Programs Computer and Information Science, BS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit