Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Graduate Online Degrees and Certificates Graduate Online Degrees and Certificates A Michigan degree — on your time. Many of our students have jobs, families or demanding personal obligations. Others simply prefer an online learning experience. We offer the flexibility you need to keep your life balanced while working towards the degree that will advance your career. Request More Information Apply Why Choose Online Learning at UM-Dearborn Complete your Michigan degree online at UM-Dearborn and receive the same high quality education with the flexibility you need.Reputation with Practical Focus: Employers recognize the U-M brand. At Dearborn, we connect theoretical knowledge to solving real-life challenges.Engaging Online Community: Online tools not only allow students to complete their course work remotely, but also create community among students through discussions, forums and group projects.Networking and Career Support: You’ll work alongside experienced, supportive professors, have access to campus resources like our Career Services office and be part of our alumni network.Accessible and Affordable: Tuition rates are competitive and out of state students can receive in-state tuition rates through our Great Lakes Scholarship or Graduate Differential Scholarship. Additional scholarships are available for all students, such as tuition discounts for non-profit employees. Online Degree Offerings Each of our four colleges offer a variety of graduate degrees available fully online. Course modes, such as synchronous or asynchronous, are determined by each department and faculty member. The program page and course catalog will have additional information and details. College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL) Criminology and Criminal Justice, MS College of Education, Health, and Human Services (CEHHS) Early Childhood Education, MAEducation, MAEducation, EdDEducational Leadership, MAEducation Specialist Program, EdSHealthcare Administration and Leadership, MSInstructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA College of Engineering and Computer Science (CECS) Artificial Intelligence, MSAutomotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSEComputer and Information Science, MSComputer Engineering, MSECybersecurity and Information Assurance, MSData Science, MSElectrical Engineering, MSEEnergy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSEEngineering Management, MSHuman-Centered Design and Engineering, MSIndustrial and Systems Engineering, MSEInformation Systems and Technology, MSManufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSEMaterials Science and Engineering, MSEMechanical Engineering, MSEProgram and Project Management, MSRobotics Engineering, MSESoftware Engineering, MS College of Business (COB) Business Administration, MBABusiness Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MSBusiness Administration/Industrial and Systems Engineering, Dual MBA/MSEFinance, MSMarketing, MS Online Certificate Offerings Graduate certificates can often be applied toward a master’s degree, allowing students to gain specialized skills now and count those credits toward future degree completion. This flexible option helps you build credentials step-by-step while working toward your long-term academic goals. College of Education, Health, and Human Services (CEHHS) Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate College of Engineering and Computer Science (CECS) Automotive Materials and DesignAutomotive Noise, Vibration and HarshnessAutomotive PowertrainsControl SystemsElectric Energy TechnologyElectrical System AnalyticsElectrical System EquipmentElectrical System PlanningElectrical System Protection and ControlEngineering of Electrified Vehicular SystemsGame DesignIndustrial MechatronicsIntelligent Systems in Engineering ApplicationsMaterials for ManufacturingModeling and Simulations in EngineeringPlastic and Composite MaterialsProgram and Project ManagementSoftware EngineeringSystems EngineeringVehicle Electronics and Controls Frequently Asked Questions Degree and Program QualityIs the online degree the same as the on-campus one?Yes. Online students receive the same Michigan degree as on-campus students. The diploma and degree conferred read the same and there is no mention of the modality. How does the online learning experience compare to on-campus?All courses, whether online or in-person, are taught by UM-Dearborn faculty and reflect the same academic quality and reputation. The University of Michigan-Dearborn is not new to teaching online. We have been doing so for almost 20 years.Online Experience and FlexibilityHow flexible is the online learning experience?Many courses are offered asynchronously, letting you learn on your own schedule. Some programs include live sessions for real-time interaction. Will I interact with professors and classmates?Yes. Faculty are guided to hold live online office hours and respond to questions through Canvas or email. Courses may include discussions, forums and group projects, providing a collaborative and engaging online community.Admissions & CostsHow do I apply to an online program?The process is the same as for on-campus, just select the online option for your program in the application. Visit our application page to review admission requirements, view deadlines and submit your materials.Are online students eligible for in-state tuition or scholarships?Yes. Out-of-state students may qualify for in-state rates through the Great Lakes Scholarship or Graduate Differential Scholarship. Additional scholarships or discounts are available for nonprofit employees.Are payment plans available?Yes. Visit the Payment Plans page or contact Student Accounts at [email protected].Student Support & ResourcesWill I have access to campus resources and career support?Yes. Online students can access virtual career services, academic advising and library resources. There may also be opportunities to participate in networking with classmates and alumni.Technology & Course AccessWhat technology do I need?A reliable internet connection and computer are required. Courses are accessed via Canvas, UM-Dearborn's learning management system (LMS).Where can I test Canvas or review online readiness?Resources are available on the Canvas for Students webpage, including a Canvas overview video and student readiness survey. If accessing out of the United States, our Digital Team has set up a test course site to try out in-country. Course Structure & RequirementsDo online courses follow the same academic calendar?Yes. Online courses have the same academic calendar and term lengths as on-campus courses.Will I need to buy extra course materials?Requirements vary by course. Materials will be listed in course syllabi and the Campus Bookstore.What are the exams and assignments like?Assessment methods vary by instructor. Possibilities may include (but are not limited to) take home exams and timed Canvas-based exams. Individual or group projects may also be used.Is group work required in online courses?Some courses include group work, such as discussions, group presentations, group projects, etc. The amount and format vary by course/instructor.How does grading work?Grading policies vary course by course and are outlined in each syllabus. Online courses may include graded discussions and projects.General & ContactWhere can I get more information or help?You can request information or email [email protected] with questions. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Tuition and Funding Request Information Apply