The Power of Liberal Arts and the Sciences The College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters fosters an exceptional education that promotes diversity, inclusion, creativity, and personal excellence—empowering students, faculty, and staff to be positive agents of change in their communities.Some students aspire to cure cancer. Others prefer to chase breaking news stories or shape local government. Whatever your passion may be, the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters has a program for you. Apply Now 11/1 Breadcrumb Home College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Our Programs CASL's varied undergraduate and graduate academic programs reflect our commitment to leadership, learning and student success. Check out our majors, minors and certificate programs! Where Learning Meets Action Here in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, our students learn by doing. From groundbreaking research and hands-on learning to community partnerships and career preparation, discover the experiences that make a liberal arts and sciences degree from UM-Dearborn stand out. Previous Career Development CASL prepares students for what comes next by connecting academics with real-world experiences. Through internships, career panels, alumni networking, faculty mentoring, and events like CASL Career Day, students build the confidence, skills, and connections they need to launch successful careers. Liberal Arts in the Age of AI In a rapidly changing world, CASL students learn the human skills that matter most. Critical thinking, communication, creativity, ethical decision-making, adaptability, and problem-solving are paired with emerging technologies like AI to prepare students to lead in any industry. Community Outreach CASL students and faculty are deeply connected to the communities around them. From working with local schools, museums, and nonprofits to partnering with organizations like the Arab American National Museum and leading projects such as the InsideOut Prison exchange, students get to make a difference in Dearborn and Southeast Michigan, while building valuable professional skills. Practice-Based Learning At CASL, learning goes beyond the classroom. Students gain hands-on experience through opportunities like assisting with cold case investigations alongside the Monroe County Sheriff’s Office, participating in archaeological digs at River Raisin, conducting cancer research in faculty labs, and using brain cap technology to explore psychology and human behavior. We currently have nearly 350 courses that include PBL practices. Research With Faculty Students at CASL do not have to wait until graduate school to do meaningful research. They work alongside faculty on projects in the sciences, social sciences, behavioral sciences, humanities, mathematics, and the arts — from air quality and happiness studies to microbiology, AI, economics, archaeology, and public history. Career Development CASL prepares students for what comes next by connecting academics with real-world experiences. Through internships, career panels, alumni networking, faculty mentoring, and events like CASL Career Day, students build the confidence, skills, and connections they need to launch successful careers. Liberal Arts in the Age of AI In a rapidly changing world, CASL students learn the human skills that matter most. Critical thinking, communication, creativity, ethical decision-making, adaptability, and problem-solving are paired with emerging technologies like AI to prepare students to lead in any industry. Community Outreach CASL students and faculty are deeply connected to the communities around them. From working with local schools, museums, and nonprofits to partnering with organizations like the Arab American National Museum and leading projects such as the InsideOut Prison exchange, students get to make a difference in Dearborn and Southeast Michigan, while building valuable professional skills. Practice-Based Learning At CASL, learning goes beyond the classroom. Students gain hands-on experience through opportunities like assisting with cold case investigations alongside the Monroe County Sheriff’s Office, participating in archaeological digs at River Raisin, conducting cancer research in faculty labs, and using brain cap technology to explore psychology and human behavior. We currently have nearly 350 courses that include PBL practices. Research With Faculty Students at CASL do not have to wait until graduate school to do meaningful research. They work alongside faculty on projects in the sciences, social sciences, behavioral sciences, humanities, mathematics, and the arts — from air quality and happiness studies to microbiology, AI, economics, archaeology, and public history. Career Development CASL prepares students for what comes next by connecting academics with real-world experiences. Through internships, career panels, alumni networking, faculty mentoring, and events like CASL Career Day, students build the confidence, skills, and connections they need to launch successful careers. Liberal Arts in the Age of AI In a rapidly changing world, CASL students learn the human skills that matter most. Critical thinking, communication, creativity, ethical decision-making, adaptability, and problem-solving are paired with emerging technologies like AI to prepare students to lead in any industry. Next123451/5 Dean Dagmar Budikova A Message from the Dean Welcome to the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL). As the Dean, I am thrilled to lead this dynamic community of students, scholars, educators, and staff, all committed to fostering excellence in education, innovation, and discovery. Our diverse team is dedicated to igniting intellectual curiosity, nurturing creativity, advancing scholarship, and ultimately enhancing the educational journey of our students at all academic levels. Our culture is grounded on the principles of inclusivity, respect, and the creation of welcoming environments that uplift everyone – faculty, staff, and students alike.Read more of Dean Budikova's message. "By becoming part of the CASL community, your time at UM-Dearborn will be life-changing and unforgettable." -Dagmar Budikova, Dean of CASL & Professor of Geography Rankings & Recognition U.S. News & World Report ranked UM-Dearborn #1 Regional Public University in the state of Michigan for 2026. U.S. News & World Report ranked UM-Dearborn #1 Top Performers on Social Mobility in the state for 2026. U.S. News & World Report ranked CASL's undergraduate Psychology program fourth among public universities in the state for 2026. The Look to Michigan Campaign advances student success, faculty excellence, holistic growth, and sustainability. In CASL, we’re preparing future difference-makers through an accessible, inclusive education that builds thriving communities on campus and beyond. Your support drives what’s next. Learn More CASL News More CASL News 5/2/2026 Congrats, Class of Spring 2026! UM-Dearborn awarded 1,090 degrees during three commencement ceremonies on May 2 — helping U-M reach one million degrees conferred.... 4/27/2026 Happy 25th anniversary, EIC The Environmental Interpretive Center’s 25-year milestone celebrates the rich history of nature education and stewardship that’s taken place on the land for many years. The staff is hosting an anniversary event on May 16. ... 4/20/2026 Class of Spring 2026: CASL graduate Manuella Barbosa Braga The College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters double major is planning for a career in international diplomacy. She says her UM-Dearborn education offered opportunities to experience the world, both through a study abroad in Europe and right here on campus.... 4/13/2026 Meet the CASL and COB Medallion winners This commencement season, 12 students across the university are recognized with UM-Dearborn’s top honors.... Events More Events May 15 Public Nights at the Observatory May 15, 2026 9:30 pm -11:30 pm May 29 Public Nights at the Observatory May 29, 2026 9:45 pm -11:45 pm Jun 18 College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Virtual Graduate Open House (6.18.26) June 18, 2026 6:00 pm -7:00 pm More Events