French Translation, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program French Translation, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Gain Professional French Language SkillsLinguistic, cultural, and practical skills you acquire with our French translation certificate will open doors to a variety of translation tasks in professional settings. You could find yourself leveraging these in-demand skills in the fields of immigration, business, journalism, transportation, engineering, literature, diplomacy, and others around the world.You’ll explore the art of French translation from multiple perspectives: cultural, theoretical, interdisciplinary, and practical. You’ll also learn how to navigate the complexities of translating cultural concepts and idiomatic expressions that differ between languages while engaging with a rich variety of genres.Before enrolling in the certificate program, you must:Make an appointment with the French studies directorBring an unofficial copy of your transcript showing a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5Complete an application formComplete fourth-semester French (French 202) or equivalent by placement testAll credits you earn with this certificate can be applied toward the French studies major or minor, the international studies-French major, and other certificates. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Writers and Authors Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The 12-credit certificate consists of three courses that cover advanced conversation and composition, translation, and writing and translating. Beyond the traditional classroom, you will be exposed to interactive experiences from various platforms, including the Ile en ile YouTube channel, an initiative promoting French language authors from islands all over the world. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs French Studies, BA International Studies, BA Arabic Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit