Education Specialist Program, EdS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Education Specialist Program, EdS CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Develop Your Educational Leadership SkillsStarting Fall 2026, this program will be a fully online program.Veteran educators dedicated to transforming education at the PK-12 and community college levels can gain the knowledge needed to lead those changes in the education specialist program at University of Michigan-Dearborn. The advanced professional degree program is ideal for educators who seek new skills and new opportunities for leadership, including those seeking the Michigan Central Office Administrator Certificate. The online experience of the Ed.S. program provides flexibility for working the education professional. Where an Education Specialist Degree Will Take YouBesides preparing students for leadership roles in educational administration, the degree puts you halfway toward earning an Ed.D. degree. The Ed.D. requires at least 60 credits beyond a master’s degree. Students who complete the education specialist degree at University of Michigan-Dearborn can transfer up to 30 credit hours toward completion of the Ed.D. degree at UM-Dearborn. Program Details What You’ll Study The advanced professional degree program helps educators enhance their knowledge of theory and best practices, acquire skills in interpreting and using educational scholarship and research, and understand processes of change and leadership in educational settings.The program has three parts:Nine credits in core coursesEighteen credits in the student’s concentrationThree credits for a research projectThere’s a great deal of flexibility within each concentration, allowing students to choose courses that fit their individual interests and needs. Explore Program Requirements Concentration Options Students in the 30-credit program choose from among two concentrations:Central Office Administration The concentration in Central Office Administration provides students the ability to develop the leadership and administrative skills needed to identify, solve, and anticipate the challenges facing K-12 schools and community colleges. Students in this concentration can complete the program and be recommended to the Michigan Department of Education for the MDE-required Central Office Administrator Certificate for educators in, or aspiring to, a K-12 district central office leadership position.Urban Education & Curriculum Studies The concentration in Urban Education and Curriculum Design prepares students to assume leadership positions in urban school systems and other educational agencies with a focus on the historical, political, economic, and socio-cultural context of communities and schools. Admission Requirements The GRE is not required for admission to this program. You must submit the following with your application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institutionMaster's degree with a 3.3 GPA or higher Two professional letters of recommendationStatement of purposeAt least 3 years of teaching experience or the equivalent in a professional setting is required. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Instructional Coordinator School and Career Counselor Elementary, Middle, and High School Principal Postsecondary Education Administrator Instructional Coordinator $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinator Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. School and Career Counselor $65,140 Median SalarySchool and Career Counselor Employment of school and career counselors and advisors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,000 openings for school and career counselors and advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Elementary, Middle, and High School Principal $104,070 Median SalaryElementary, Middle, and High School Principal Employment of elementary, middle, and high school principals is projected to decline 2 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 20,800 openings for elementary, middle, and high school principals are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Postsecondary Education Administrator $103,960 Median SalaryPostsecondary Education Administrator Employment of postsecondary education administrators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 15,100 openings for postsecondary education administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Education, MA Educational Leadership, MA Education, EdD Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit