Educational Leadership, MA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Educational Leadership, MA CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services M.A. Educational Leadership Flyer Take Your Education Career to the Next LevelThis program is a fully online program.If you want to join the ranks of principals and other PK-12 school administrators, the fully online Master of Arts in educational leadership program at UM-Dearborn will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and competencies you need to succeed.The program is approved by the Michigan Department of Education and meets its Standards for the Preparation of School Principals. Backed by our recommendation, graduates are eligible to apply for the Michigan School Administrator Certificate.Where a Master’s in Educational Leadership Will Take YouYour degree will prepare you to seize the opportunities and meet the challenges of PK-12 school administration. You’ll be ready for a variety of leadership positions, including school principal, instructional coordinator, and curriculum developer, among many others. Program Details What You’ll Study In the 30-credit program, you’ll develop knowledge and skills in subjects like organizational administration, curriculum development, instructional leadership, personnel, finance, applications of technology, community relations, data analysis, legal and regulatory issues, and program evaluation. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You’ll have multiple clinical experiences as part of your coursework, giving you chances to apply what you’re learning. And you’ll cap off your program with a semester-long internship in educational administration under the guidance of experienced leaders. Out Of State Tuition Reduction Because the master’s program is entirely online, students who aren’t Michigan residents qualify for the non-resident online tuition rate. This rate is about 30 percent lower than the normal non-resident rate, saving you nearly $1,500 per three-credit course or almost $15,000 overall. Admissions Requirements A GRE is not required. You must submit the following with your application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institution3.0 GPA or higher on submitted transcriptsTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purpose Fully Online This program is only offered in a fully online format and meets the same standard of quality and rigor as our on-campus programs. In addition, diplomas and transcripts for online programs are identical to those for on-campus programs. For the most part, classes are offered asynchronously and have regularly set deadlines for assignments, tests, exams, discussions, and other course requirements. Students engage in online classes through participation in discussions, assignments, projects, and modules that can contain videos, presentations, podcasts and other multimedia elements. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Elementary, Middle, or High School Principal Postsecondary Education Administrator Instructional Coordinator Elementary, Middle, or High School Principal $104,070 Median SalaryElementary, Middle, or High School Principal Employment of elementary, middle, and high school principals is projected to decline 2 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 20,800 openings for elementary, middle, and high school principals are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Postsecondary Education Administrator $103,960 Median SalaryPostsecondary Education Administrator Employment of postsecondary education administrators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 15,100 openings for postsecondary education administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Instructional Coordinator $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinator Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. The MA in Educational Leadership prepares students for roles in PK-12 school leadership. The program meets the MDE Standards for the Preparation of School Principals. Related Programs Education, MA Education, EdD Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit