Food Studies, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Food Studies, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters From Nutrition to PoliticsOur food studies certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you to live and work in a world where food is central to human health and well-being, cultural identity, public policy, and ecological sustainability. Food is a powerful force given that much of our lives are structured in and around obtaining, preparing, and sharing food with family, friends, and our community. Food also serves as an ideal focal point to demonstrate the deep connections and intersections between local and global forces, economic and social inequalities, race and gender, climate change and environmental sustainability, personal and public health, violent conflicts, and technology. The subject has special relevance because many of our students and their communities experience food insecurity and food-related health problems.A Certificate in Food Studies allows students and community members to engage within and between multiple disciplines to begin the process of uncovering how these diverse threads are entangled. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Agricultural and Food Science Technicians Dietitians and Nutritionists Health Education Specialists Agricultural and Food Scientists Chefs and Head Cooks Agricultural and Food Science Technicians $48,480 Median SalaryAgricultural and Food Science Technicians Overall employment of agricultural and food science technicians is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 6,100 openings for agricultural and food science technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Dietitians and Nutritionists $73,850 Median SalaryDietitians and Nutritionists Employment of dietitians and nutritionists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 6,200 openings for dietitians and nutritionists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health Education Specialists $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialists Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Agricultural and Food Scientists $78,770 Median SalaryAgricultural and Food Scientists Overall employment of agricultural and food scientists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,100 openings for agricultural and food scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chefs and Head Cooks $60,990 Median SalaryChefs and Head Cooks Employment of chefs and head cooks is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 24,400 openings for chefs and head cooks are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Students who participate in this program will meet the following goals:Gain familiarity with the major concepts of critical Food Studies as an emerging multi-disciplinary area of studyDevelop the skills to critically evaluate the ability of food systems to achieve goals of food security, health and wellness, environmental sustainability, and equity.Integrate theory and practice from across the disciplines to address complex problems in food systems.Ability to apply theory to practice through research, creative production, and/or community engagement/advocacy. Explore Program Requirements Who will benefit from this Certificate? This certificate program will have impactful and tangible benefits at both the familial and community level. There are many opportunities in careers, graduate study, volunteer and outreach opportunities that can benefit by completion of this programStudents and community members interested in the following areas will particularly benefit from this certificate:Non-profit work in food-related areas (such as urban farming, sustainability issues, food/nutrition education, to highlight just a few examples)Food production or service workLocal, state or national government policy workPhysician’s assistantsNutritionist programs and related fieldsMedical school applicants (where emphasis on nutrition and health is woefully lacking) Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Health and Human Services, BS Environmental Science, BA/BS Community Change, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit