Economics, BA/BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Economics, BA/BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Social Sciences Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Why study Economics?Economics is the study of how individuals, businesses, governments, and others choose to use resources. Ultimately, it’s about well-being: measuring it, learning how it may rise or fall, and evaluating the well-being of the rich, the poor, and those in between.Our economics program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is shaped by the real world. It delves into critical issues like inflation, unemployment, crime, poverty, and global warming, offering potential solutions. The skills you gain, from understanding economic models to applying quantitative analysis to real-world data, will set you apart when you enter the workforce.Where an Economics Degree Will Take YouThe versatility of an economics degree from UM-Dearborn will open up a multitude of career paths. Economists are needed in virtually all sectors, from business and finance to government and nonprofit organizations. Most importantly, you’ll develop critical thinking skills for practical problem solving, making you invaluable to a wide variety of employers. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Economists Financial Analysts Actuaries Mathematicians and Statisticians Market Research Analysts Economists $115,440 Median SalaryEconomists (master’s usually required) Employment of economists is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 900 openings for economists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians (master’s usually required) Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Market Research Analysts $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analysts Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study It’s mostly up to you. Only three of the eight courses in the economics major are required. You choose five upper-level economics elective courses and two cognate courses in fields outside economics to complete the degree.The economics electives that you choose from cover a huge range of topics, giving you great flexibility. Some of those topics include economic statistics, money and banking, sports economics, economic history, health economics, experimental economics, environmental economics, monetary economics, public finance, economic development, and international trade, among others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your courses will provide opportunities to gain real-life experience, putting theories into practice. You also may conduct research in our Behavioral and Experimental Economics and Policy Laboratory or pursue an Economics Internship, where you gain experience with a business, nonprofit organization, or government agency.More hands-on experiences are available in our general internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration in economics consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in economics (ECON). You can complete the minor or concentration online, in person, or a combination of both.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Fast-Track Your Bachelor's and Master's Degree With a 4+1 Program in Finance The Finance 4+1 program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn allows students majoring in Economics to earn both the bachelor's degree and the Master of Science in Finance with a substantial savings of time and money.In the Finance 4+1 program, you would complete the curriculum requirements for your undergraduate degree program and the MS in Finance, but you would take up to five of the following courses as electives in your undergraduate program:FIN 581 - Advanced Corporate Finance FIN 651 - Investment Procedures Analysis and Management FIN 652 - Derivatives and Risk Management FIN 655 - International Financial Management (replaces IB 441)FIN 657 - Investment Fund Management (replaces FIN 457)ACC 608 - Financial Statement Analysis (replaces ACC 358)Up to five of these courses (15 credits) may double-count in your undergraduate degree program and the MS-Finance program. Not only do you save the time associated with completing five graduate courses, but you also pay the undergraduate tuition rate for those same graduate courses. Students who continue on to complete the master’s program can save approximately $17,000, based on part-time enrollment at resident tuition rates.Students must complete the graduate level courses with a grade of B or better to maintain eligibility in the 4+1 program.Please speak with your academic advisor to plan your courses and make sure you understand how many free elective courses you have. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Economics at UM-Dearborn With a major in Economics from the University of Michigan - Dearborn you will embark on a journey through economic theories and real-world applications that will empower you to make real and lasting change to the world around you. How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, there are endless opportunities to get involved. You can join the Economics Club, participate in research projects with your professors, explore general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much, much more. Programs Offered Beyond BA Business Administration, MBA Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) Finance, MS Related Programs Economics and Computation, BS Data Science/Economics, Dual BS Data Science, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit