Breadcrumb Home One-Stop Registration and Degree Planning Academic Advising Academic Advising Academic Advising is available to provide information to students about program requirements, policies, procedures, and campus resources. Undergraduate and Graduate advising are provided with different resources. Mission StatementUndergraduate Academic Advising at the University of Michigan-Dearborn empowers students to embrace knowledge of who they are, establish personal and professional goals, and take ownership of their educational experience so that they become active and responsible citizens and leaders in their community. We do this by supporting and partnering with students as they navigate university resources, policies, and requirements. We are committed to excellence in advocacy and relationship building in order to create an inclusive and welcoming environment for all students. Undergraduate Advising Schedule an Advising AppointmentTo schedule an advising appointment you can use the schedule an appointment feature in the student portal. Be sure to schedule with your assigned advisor or an academic advisor on your success team. If you need assistance accessing My UM-Dearborn, review these solutions. Log in to My UM-Dearborn Make appointments with your academic advisor, financial aid and other support staff Track your open cases with support offices across the university View upcoming appointments and tasks Who is my advisor? Each undergraduate student is assigned an academic advising office upon admission to the university. Students are assigned to work with the START office or their Academic Unit Advising office.To find your assigned advisor you may navigate to your Success Team in your Student portal. Some advising offices will list all of the advisors from the office on your success team. In this case, you are welcome to meet with any of the advisors on your success team.If you do not have an assigned success team in your portal, contact your advising office for academic advising assistance. Student Advising and Resource Team (START) College of Arts, Sciences, & Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, & Human Services College of Engineering & Computer Science Additional Undergraduate Advising SupportHealth Professions AdvisingHealth Professions Advising includes Pre-Med, Pre-Dent, Pre-PA, and many more pre-health professions advising. The Health Professions advising program has a great track record of success in supporting students as they work toward their future goals. Please visit the HPA Website and don't forget to attend a new student session if you have not already done so.Pre-Law AdvisingThe Pre-Law advisor for the campus is housed in the College of Arts, Science, and Letters Advising office. If you are interested in attending law school after attending the University of Michigan-Dearborn please visit the Pre-Law Advising webpage.Undecided or Exploratory AdvisingThe START office provides general undecided or exploratory advising for students. If you are unsure of what you want to major in, you can meet with the undecided advisor in START.If you are thinking about changing your major and have an idea of what college you would like to change to, but aren't sure where to begin you can always schedule an exploratory meeting directly with the college that houses the major that is of interest to you. Graduate Advising Academic advising is managed differently for each graduate program. Please refer to your Academic College or Program for more information about who will be your graduate academic advisor. College of Arts, Sciences, & Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, & Human Services College of Engineering & Computer Science Related Resources Readmissions Previously a registered student and like to return? You need to request readmission. Student Petitions Request an exception to an academic rule or policy.