Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Business Administration, MBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Business Administration, MBA College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Dual Degree Programs RedesignedA Future-Ready MBA: Flexible and Designed for a Data-Driven WorldEarn your MBA on your terms: entirely online, in the evening on campus, or through a combination of both in our nationally ranked program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our newly redesigned MBA will develop your strategic mindset and equip you with the tools to thrive in technology-driven global business environments. Core courses in Business Analytics, Business Applications of AI, Stakeholder-Centric Management, Global Business, and Decision-Making will prepare you for electives in key functional areas.Many of our students attend the MBA program part time while working. Part-time students typically finish their degrees within two to two-and-a-half years.Want to jump start your degree? If you’re a current UM-Dearborn undergraduate student and you’ve been admitted to the master’s program, you can take up to six graduate credits during your final undergraduate semester.Where an MBA Will Take YouAn MBA from UM-Dearborn can open doors to any array of leadership roles and other opportunities. From launching your own business to working at multinational corporations domestically or abroad, you’ll have the knowledge and skills to succeed in the business world. Our career support services, global alumni network, and expansive networking opportunities will help you land your dream job. Program Details What You'll Study The curriculum blends foundational business knowledge with advanced analytical and leadership skills, equipping you to drive strategic impact in any organization. Through a combination of core coursework, specialized electives, and a hands-on capstone experience, you'll develop a well-rounded perspective on modern business challenges.Foundations courses build expertise across all key business functions.The program emphasizes transformational knowledge, covering global management, decision-making, and emerging strategies. Courses in business analytics, AI for business, and stakeholder-centric management prepare you for the future of business.A personalized pathway lets you tailor electives to meet your unique goals.Our application-based capstone ties everything together, preparing you for strategic decision-making from a top-level perspective. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Our MBA program is deeply rooted in practice-based learning that builds the strategic, analytical, and leadership skills today's employers demand. You’ll strengthen your ability to make data-informed decisions, lead teams, manage operations, and think globally—while applying what you learn in real-world contexts.Through case studies, consulting-style projects, and your strategy capstone, you’ll engage with complex business challenges across industries. You’ll explore AI and analytics for business, develop stakeholder-centric leadership skills, and refine your ability to communicate and present with impact.Beyond the classroom, you can gain hands-on experience by analyzing real-time market data in the Bloomberg Finance Lab, pursuing career options with support from the Business Career Center, conducting applied research through iLabs, coaching peers as a consultant in the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Online Option Our online programs meet the same course requirements and admission standards as campus-based programs, and your diploma and transcript will be identical. Whether you complete your degree online, on campus, or in a hybrid format, it’s the same degree. Online students are welcome to enroll in campus-based courses and are encouraged to take advantage of campus resources and in-person events, like professional organizations and study-abroad opportunities.Asynchronous Virtual ClassroomCollege of Business online courses follow the regular semester schedule and are mostly delivered asynchronously. This means your professors will set deadlines, but you’ll have flexibility in when you complete assignments, tests, and activities. Unless specified, there’s no need to log in at a specific time, allowing you to participate from anywhere with internet access! To keep you engaged, our online courses often include group discussions, videos, projects, and quizzes or exams.Personalized Attention and SupportAs an online graduate student, you’ll have direct access to your professors, just as if you were on campus. You’ll also receive priority registration for online courses each semester. For academic advising, call us at 313-593-4776 to schedule a phone appointment during daytime or early evening hours, or email quick questions to umd-cobgradadvisor@umich.edu. While not required, we encourage online students to take advantage of campus resources and events, including professional organizations and study-abroad opportunities. Additionally, you’ll have full access to digital resources like the UM-Dearborn library. Course Waivers and Transfer Credit You may waive any or all of the foundation courses if you have equivalent courses in an AACSB-accredited business program completed within the previous 10 years and you have earned at least a 3.2 post-60 GPA (that is, your GPA in courses taken after your first 60 undergraduate credit hours). If you don't meet these criteria, you may request to have individual business courses evaluated for foundations waiver credit at the time of admission. You must have earned a B or better in an equivalent course as a part of a degree program completed within the previous 10 years.Depending on how many foundations waivers you earn, you could reduce the length of the MBA program from 48 to as few as 36 credits.In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for previous equivalent graduate coursework can be applied to the degree if those credits have not been counted toward a degree.Waivers and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Domestic applicants:Fall term: August 1Winter term: December 1Summer term: April 1 (part-time students only)International applicants:Fall term: May 1Winter term: September 1(International not eligible for summer admission)Admission is rolling. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term, but applications and materials will be accepted until the posted "Last Day to Submit". View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Financial Analysts Administrative Services and Facilities Managers Sales Managers Human Resources Managers Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Administrative Services and Facilities Managers $106,880 Median SalaryAdministrative Services and Facilities Managers Overall employment of administrative services and facilities managers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for administrative services and facilities managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sales Managers $138,060 Median SalarySales Managers Employment of sales managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 49,000 openings for sales managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. The Master of Business Administration provides students with the integrated perspective required to solve today’s complex business problems. Related Programs Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Business Administration/Industrial and Systems Engineering, Dual MBA/MSE Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Business Administration/Supply Chain Management, Dual MBA/MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Connect with Us