Breadcrumb Home About UM-Dearborn Leadership In this section In this section About Toggle Submenu Mission University History Toggle Submenu University Symbols Leadership Visit Campus Toggle Submenu Maps and Directions Parking & Transportation Accreditations Facts and Figures Economic Impact Leadership The university’s leadership team guides our vision for our school, our community and our region. Our administration takes pride in carrying on the University of Michigan’s legacy of academic excellence while executing UM-Dearborn’s unique mission to provide meaningful real-world educational opportunities and make a lasting impact in our region.Led by Interim Chancellor Gabriella Scarlatta, we’re committed to fostering a safe, inclusive environment where students, staff and faculty unite to create a supportive, invigorating, success-oriented academic community while building a bright future for southeast Michigan. Administrative Organization & Officers Interim ChancellorGabriella Scarlatta, PhDThe Chancellor provides direction, leadership and vision for the University. The Chancellor is also UM-Dearborn’s primary representative to the Board of Regents, the Michigan legislature and the community at large and serves as an Executive Officer of the University of Michigan. Interim Provost and Chief Academic Officer Ghassan Kridli, PhDThe Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs is responsible for administering the academic programs and policies and enrollment management functions of the Dearborn campus. This includes recruitment of faculty and deans, and oversight for the campus library system, natural areas, sponsored research, institutional research, arts programs, enrollment management, financial aid and registrar functions. Senior Director of Human Resources and Senior Advisor to the ChancellorRima Berry-HungRima Berry-Hung currently serves as the UM-Dearborn Senior Director of Human Resources and Senior Advisor to the Chancellor. Prior to serving as Director, Rima has been the Associate Director of Human Resources at UM-Dearborn. Her background also includes serving as HR Director at U-M's School of Education in Ann Arbor. Previously she held progressively responsible roles at UM-Dearborn as HR Lead Consultant, Senior Generalist, Associate and Assistant; and in Ann Arbor as HR Functional Analyst and the HR Coordinator at the School of Art and Design. Rima has a Master of Arts degree in Communication from Eastern Michigan University and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communication and Anthropology from UM-Dearborn and currently holds a Professional Human Resources (PHR) certification through the Society of Human of Resources Management (SHRM). Vice Chancellor for Business AffairsBryan Dadey, MBAThe Vice Chancellor for Business Affairs (VCBA) is the Chief Financial Officer for the university responsible for all financial matters including the development of the university’s annual budget. The VCBA oversees financial services (including accounting, reporting, budget and student accounts); facilities operations (including facilities planning, plant operations, event management and environmental health & safety); human resources; and campus public safety & emergency management. Vice Chancellor for Information Technology and Chief Strategy OfficerCarrie Shumaker, MBAThe Vice Chancellor for Information Technology and Chief Strategy Officer is responsible for creating and sustaining the data and technology foundation that supports the university's mission. This position also assists the Chancellor in the execution of the GoBLUEprint for Success (the university's strategic plan) and leads the development and monitoring of related Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Vice Chancellor for Institutional AdvancementCasandra Ulbrich, PhDThe Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement strengthens the institution by cultivating alumni and donor engagement. Institutional Advancement supports the university vision by fostering philanthropy among our constituents and involving our alumni, donors, corporate and foundation partners in the life of the campus and raising support for student success.The Vice Chancellor for External Relations is responsible for university communications and marketing, including internal and external communications, website, advertising and branding. The office also represents the university in dialogues with federal, state and local governments, and presents the university's position on current and proposed legislation. Academic Units College of BusinessFrédéric Brunel, PhDDean College of Arts, Sciences, and LettersDagmar Budikova, PhDDean College of Engineering and Computer ScienceArmen Zakarian, PhDInterim Dean College of Education, Health, and Human ServicesAnn Lampkin-Williams, PhDDean Related Resources Office of the Chancellor Office of the Provost Employment Contact Information Strategic Planning