Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Gain Advanced Technical ExpertiseDive into the fast-paced, constantly evolving world of the automotive industry with the Master of Science in Engineering in automotive and mobility systems engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our program equips you with the advanced technical expertise required as the industry shifts towards electric and hybrid drives, intelligent control systems, autonomous vehicles, and new mobility solutions. Our interdisciplinary program draws on strengths from the entire College of Engineering and Computer Science and offers a broad perspective on automotive systems engineering combined with depth in major thrust areas in the form of study concentrations. You’ll learn from PhD faculty engaged in cutting-edge research and from leading industry experts.You can take classes for the 30-credit master’s degree in person, online, or a combination of both.Where an MSE in Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering Will Take YouThis program prepares you for careers in design, development, and manufacturing of automotive systems. The comprehensive knowledge and skills you'll acquire can also lead to leadership roles in automotive engineering fields. Recent graduates of this program are employed by automotive manufacturers and suppliers, many of which are located in Southeast Michigan. Program Details What You’ll Study Your studies will go beyond traditional engineering education to cover emerging topics like intelligent control systems, advanced design and manufacturing, and lightweight materials. You'll develop a systems-thinking approach to automotive-related problems and strengthen your teamwork skills–key assets in any modern engineering environment.Only two of your courses are required. You choose the other eight to combine a broad study of the technology with in-depth exploration of one of five concentrations, which will be formally recognized in your transcripts:Vehicle Powertrain and PerformanceVehicle Design and ManufacturingVehicle ElectrificationIntelligent Vehicle SystemsGeneral StudyIf you’re interested in an in-depth study of a specific topic or a faculty-guided research, you may enroll in independent study, master’s thesis, or capstone design courses. The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain We updated and redesigned the program in 2023, adding study concentrations and new courses focused on recent technology developments. You'll have numerous opportunities to apply your knowledge to real-world problems under the guidance of eminent researchers and industry practitioners. By engaging in creative design and problem solving, you'll be equipped with an invaluable set of skills to stand out in the automotive industry.More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available in our internship and on-campus research. Talk to your professors to learn more. Online Options The program may be completed entirely online through CECS Online, entirely on-campus, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses. The online courses utilize video streaming of the lectures given on campus. Online students have the opportunity to interact with instructors and with fellow students (both on campus as well as online) through Canvas, a campus-wide learning management system. The class lectures, notes, and discussions are posted on Canvas for all students' access. You may enroll in online courses without an obligation to join the online program. If you reside in Michigan and seek the flexibility to blend on-campus and web-based courses, consider applying to our regular program. You will be able to register for as many online courses as you desire. Please contact the graduate programs coordinator for more information. Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you should have a Bachelor of Science or equivalent engineering degree from an accredited program with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0. Applicants with lower GPAs or with non-engineering degrees in science or mathematics may be considered for admission.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Electrical and Electronics Engineers Mechanical Engineers Industrial Engineers Materials Engineers Engineering Managers Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Engineering Managers $167,740 Median SalaryEngineering Managers Employment of architectural and engineering managers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for architectural and engineering managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. UM-Dearborn | CECS | MSE in Automotive Engineering How to Get Involved You can get experience as a graduate student instructor or research assistant. You also can join the Society of Women Engineers, Formula SAE Combustion or Formula SAE Electric, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond MSE Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Related Programs Mechanical Engineering, MSE Electrical Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit