Fiction Writing, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Fiction Writing, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Learn the Craft of Writing FictionAlways wanted to try your hand at writing fiction but weren’t sure where to start? Our fiction writing certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to successfully complete your own work of fiction, all under the guidance of our expert instructors and within a supportive workshop environment.To become an exceptional writer, you need to first become a discerning reader. You’ll learn how to understand a text from a writer's perspective, grasping narrative techniques and delving into various elements of craft. Then you’ll apply your acquired skills to craft your own works of fiction–short stories, novels, graphic novels or multimedia projects. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Editors Writers and Authors News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Public Relations Specialists Technical Writers Editors $75,260 Median SalaryEditors Employment of editors is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 9,800 openings for editors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Technical Writers $91,670 Median SalaryTechnical Writers Employment of technical writers is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 4,500 openings for technical writers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our program encompasses various genres and forms of fiction, letting you explore and experiment in your narrative style. You’ll learn how to effectively use elements of craft such as characterization, plot, detail, setting, and structure in your own work, as well as how to revise and rewrite your fiction to make it the best it can be. Finally, you’ll gain the ability to provide constructive criticism, a key skill for any writer.Students will learn:The ability to close read a work of fiction in order to learn how elements of craft (for example: characterization, point of view, tone, use of detail, use of dialogue, etc.) are used to create a story. The ability to write successful short stories.The ability to revise (and rewrite) a work of fiction.The ability to offer constructive criticism on peers’ work.Contribute to a positive and supportive writing workshop. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Journalism and Media Production, BA Communication, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit