Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering Explore the Complexities of Different MaterialsLearn about the impact of processing variables on the properties of final products and how to make informed decisions about materials selection and product design in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The program also enables you to explore composites, lightweight materials, and the digital manufacturing landscape.You can take all courses for the 12-credit certificate in person, online, or a combination of both. You can apply credits earned for the certificate toward graduate degrees offered by UM-Dearborn’s Department of Mechanical Engineering.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study You design your own program, choosing four courses from among 15 options. They cover subjects like injection molding, mechanical behavior of materials, cast metals, composite materials, material degradation, digital manufacturing, automotive manufacturing processes, metal forming processes, and intelligent manufacturing, among others. View Course Catalog Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering or a related field with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.Students from other engineering backgrounds will be considered on a case-by-case basisThere are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Materials Engineers Mechanical Engineers Industrial Engineers Aerospace Engineers Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Mechanical Engineering, MSE Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit