Chemistry, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Chemistry, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Conduct Research with Faculty in Our ACS-Certified ProgramInvestigate matter and the changes it can undergo as a chemistry major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our chemistry program, which is fully accredited by the American Chemical Society, explores the tools chemistry provides for understanding life processes, environmental issues, materials, and drug interactions–tools that will solve many of the challenges of the twenty-first century.Where a Chemistry Degree Will Take MeA chemistry degree from UM-Dearborn paves the way for a variety of careers in academia, industry, government, or nonprofit organizations. Whether your passion lies in research, teaching, health care, environmental advocacy, or developing new materials and medicines, a strong foundation in chemistry can open up a world of opportunities. A chemistry degree also provides a solid foundation for graduate studies in chemistry and related fields or for professional preparation programs for pharmacists and other health care professionals. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Chemical Technicians Chemists and Materials Scientists Forensic Science Technicians Environmental Scientists and Specialists Agricultural and Food Scientists Chemical Technicians $57,790 Median SalaryChemical Technicians Employment of chemical technicians is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 6,700 openings for chemical technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemists and Materials Scientists $86,620 Median SalaryChemists and Materials Scientists Overall employment of chemists and materials scientists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 7,000 openings for chemists and materials scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Forensic Science Technicians $67,440 Median SalaryForensic Science Technicians Employment of forensic science technicians is projected to grow 13 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for forensic science technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Scientists and Specialists $80,060 Median SalaryEnvironmental Scientists and Specialists Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for environmental scientists and specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Agricultural and Food Scientists $78,770 Median SalaryAgricultural and Food Scientists Overall employment of agricultural and food scientists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,100 openings for agricultural and food scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The 120-credit chemistry degree includes 40 credits of prerequisites in chemistry, biology, physics, and mathematics. The major itself requires 31 credits in upper-level chemistry courses and six credits in upper-level biology, biochemistry, environmental science, geology, mathematics, microbiology, statistics, or physics courses. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain In every chemistry laboratory course and research experience, you’ll gain first-hand experience with the instrumental techniques relied on by modern chemistry. Our labs are outfitted with a broad range of instruments, from a 400 MHz nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer to a submicron particle size analyzer.Other hands-on experiences are available working as a part-time consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, working as a laboratory preparation assistant, and assisting faculty with research. Our faculty’s research interests include analytical chemistry, bio-inorganic chemistry, chemical education, computational chemistry, environmental chemistry, green chemistry, inorganic organometallic chemistry, nanotechnology, organic synthetic chemistry, organic materials chemistry, and physical organic chemistry. We also encourage you to conduct your own research guided by our faculty.Finally, some great real-world opportunities are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more.Program Goals & Skills gained include:Master a broad set of fundamentals in the basic areas of the chemical discipline namely organic, inorganic, analytical, and physical. Understand the objectives of chemical experiments, properly and safely carry out the experiments, and appropriately record and analyze results. Communicate orally and in writing scientific concepts to other scientists and to the general public. Skillfully utilize the chemical literature. Have the ability to effectively pursue career objectives in an advanced professional or graduate school education, a scientific career in government or industry, or a career in teaching. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in chemistry (CHEM). All of the courses have prerequisites.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage students to get involved both on and off campus. From joining student organizations and participating in undergraduate research projects to volunteering within the community, you'll find numerous opportunities to enrich your academic journey and prepare for your future career.Some of our 130+ student organizations that may especially interest you include the Chemistry Club, Biomedical Engineering Society, Biology Club, Minority Association of Pre-Med Students, Phi Delta Epsilon co-ed pre-med fraternity, Pre-Dental Association, Pre-Optometry Club, Pre-PA Association, Pre-Professional Health Society, Public Health Society, and Restoration Ecology Club. Related Programs Biochemistry, BS Biological Sciences, BS Environmental Science, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit