Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Find Your Program Begin Your Path To A Career With A Purpose At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll have more than 200 options for majors, minors, graduate programs and certificates to pursue.Whatever path you choose, you will gain real-world experience through practice-based learning, along with meaningful research, internship and co-op opportunities. At UM-Dearborn, you aren’t just launching a career-you’re launching a career to make a difference personally and professionally. Filter Programs Search by Keyword Program Type Major Minor 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Master's Degree Specialist Degree Doctoral Degree Certificate Training STEM College College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, and Human Services College of Engineering and Computer Science Areas of Interest Business & Finance Education Engineering & Design Healthcare & Social Services History & Society International Studies Language & Communication Math & Computing Natural & Physical Sciences Degree Level Undergraduate Graduate Available Online Online Showing 10 out of 75 ResultsShowing 75 out of 75 Results Accounting, MS Master's Degree Online Accounting, MS Master's Degree Online Our master’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn can help you launch a successful accounting career, regardless of your undergraduate major. Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Master's Degree Online Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Master's Degree Online No matter what you majored in as an undergraduate, our dual master’s degree program in accounting and finance at UM-Dearborn will help you develop specialized expertise that makes you stand out in the job market. Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Our master’s degree in applied and computational mathematics at the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you to work in a variety of industrial and scientific settings where you’ll help engineers, scientists, and managers solve complex problems using appropriate analytical models. Applied Behavior Analysis, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Applied Behavior Analysis, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Applied behavior analysis is the scientific study of human behavior with the goal of helping individuals improve their social, educational, health, adaptive skills, and behavioral outcomes. Artificial Intelligence, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Artificial Intelligence, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Artificial intelligence is all over the news, and it’s one of the hottest fields in technology. If you aspire to do AI research and development or to have a leadership career in industry, our Master of Science in artificial intelligence program at UM-Dearborn will help get you there. Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Dive into the fast-paced, constantly evolving world of the automotive industry with the Master of Science in Engineering in automotive and mobility systems engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our program equips you with the advanced technical expertise required as the industry shifts towards electric and autonomous vehicles and new mobility solutions. Our i Automotive Materials and Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Materials and Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Engineers who can design lightweight, fuel-efficient vehicles are in great demand. We’ve created the graduate certificate in automotive materials and design for automotive engineers who want to learn about lightweight materials, vehicle dynamics and control, advances in ergonomic and structural design, and advanced manufacturing techniques. Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Many consumers want vehicles that ride quietly, but designing them presents a host of engineering challenges. You’ll learn about the connection between automotive structural design and noise, vibration, and harshness (NVH) in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Automotive Powertrains, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Powertrains, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online High-efficiency powertrains are the focus of this graduate certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The certificate program, which is designed for automotive engineers, covers recent advances in engines, transmissions, electric and hybrid vehicles, and emission controls. Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Take the driver's seat in your career by pursuing the Doctor of Engineering in automotive systems and mobility at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The program, which is designed for working professionals with at least two years of research and development experience in industry, enables students to conduct cutting-edge research using emerging technologies in the broad Bioengineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Bioengineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Bioengineering is a field that gives you the opportunity to profoundly impact society by improving the quality of human life. Bioengineers do everything from designing and building artificial organs to creating more efficient drug development technologies. Our master’s program in bioengineering at UM-Dearborn provides the advanced training you need to excel in this rapidly Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, our Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) program will equip you with the essential knowledge and skills you need through a carefully structured curriculum and support from experienced faculty. Business Administration, MBA Master's Degree Online Business Administration, MBA Master's Degree Online Get your MBA entirely online, in the evening on campus, or a combination of both in our nationally ranked program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Lead at the intersection of business, data, and intelligent systems at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The MBA offers flexible pathways, including coursework in analytics, AI, and enterprise systems through the MS in Business Analytics with an Intelligent Systems focus. Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Become a dual threat on the job market with dual master’s degrees from the University of Michigan-Dearborn that combine a broad education in business management with the specialized training needed for success in a financial career. Business Administration/Industrial and Systems Engineering, Dual MBA/MSE Master's Degree Online Business Administration/Industrial and Systems Engineering, Dual MBA/MSE Master's Degree Online Complete a dual MBA/MSE in industrial and systems engineering entirely online at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The MSE is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, improving, and evaluating large integrated systems, while the MBA will equip you with broad management skills. Business Administration/Supply Chain Management, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Business Administration/Supply Chain Management, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Our dual MBA/MS in Supply Chain Management program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn equips you with broad managerial skills combined with specialized training in managing the organizations, people, technology, and resources that transform raw materials into deliverable products. Business Analytics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Business Analytics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Businesses generate more data than ever, but turning that data into insight and better decisions remains a challenge. In the Business Analytics program, you’ll develop skills in data analysis, statistical modeling, and intelligent systems to transform data into actionable insight and support data-driven decision-making across organizations. Clinical Health Psychology, MS Master's Degree Online Clinical Health Psychology, MS Master's Degree Online Our Clinical Health Psychology master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is a two-year, 48-credit Specialization in Clinical Health Psychology. Computer and Information Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Computer and Information Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online The MS in computer and information science program at UM-Dearborn will enhance your theoretical knowledge and practical skills, providing new career opportunities or the ability to proceed to a PhD program. You choose many of your courses, giving you the flexibility to select those that best match your personal interests and professional goals. Computer and Information Science, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Computer and Information Science, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Our Ph.D. in computer and information science is a full-time, research-oriented degree for students interested in research and development careers in industry or academia. It equips you with the analytical skills needed to create innovative solutions for complex problems using high-quality translational research in computer and information science. Completing the CIS Ph.D. Computer Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Computer Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online If you want advanced skills in designing, developing, and integrating computer hardware and software, you can get them in the computer engineering master’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses will provide plenty of hands-on experience with computers, high-performance workstations, and other microprocessor-based systems. Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Control systems are the heart of any vehicle system, whether they’re climate controls, cruise controls, engine controls, pollution controls, or others. Designing control systems for practical applications requires a thorough understanding of physical models of the process, mathematical modeling techniques, transient behavior of systems, and dynamic characteristics of a phy Criminology and Criminal Justice, MS Master's Degree Online Criminology and Criminal Justice, MS Master's Degree Online Our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn offers maximum flexibility for busy criminal justice professionals and others who want to boost their careers, as well as those who want to pursue doctoral studies or law school. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Cybersecurity is one of the most exciting, challenging, and growing fields in computer science. Seemingly constant attacks on everything from banks to public water systems to Defense Department networks by hackers, cybercriminals, corporate spies, and state-sponsored groups have revealed how vulnerable the nation is in both the private and public sectors. Our Master of Sci Data Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Data Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online If you need convincing that data science is a booming field, consider this statistic: employment of data scientists is projected to grow 35 percent over the coming decade, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. That compares to an average 3 percent growth for all occupations. Early Childhood Education, MA Master's Degree Online Early Childhood Education, MA Master's Degree Online Educators who work with young children can expand their skills and their career opportunities through the University of Michigan-Dearborn’s Master of Arts in Early Childhood Education, offering courses in-person, hybrid, and online. Education Specialist Program, EdS Specialist Degree Online Education Specialist Program, EdS Specialist Degree Online Veteran educators dedicated to transforming education at the PK-12 and community college levels can gain the knowledge needed to lead those changes. Education, EdD Doctoral Degree Online Education, EdD Doctoral Degree Online This degree provides the knowledge, skills, and credentials you need to conduct education research, teach at a college or university, work in education policy making, fill a top administrative role in PK-12 or postsecondary education. Education, MA Master's Degree Online Education, MA Master's Degree Online Flexibility is the hallmark of our in-person, hybrid, and online Master of Arts in the Education program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Educational Leadership, MA Master's Degree Online Educational Leadership, MA Master's Degree Online If you want to join the ranks of principals and other PK-12 school administrators, this fully online program will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and competencies you need to succeed. Electric Energy Technology, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electric Energy Technology, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Theories and technologies in electric energy and related applications are the focus of the electric energy technology graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll learn about power electronics, power system analysis, electric drives, motor drives, electric aspects of hybrid vehicles, and practical aspects of designing power electronics device Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Working professionals who aspire to engage in applied and developmental research in the academic, industrial, or government sectors can gain the necessary knowledge and skills with a Doctor of Engineering in electrical and computer engineering degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Electrical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Electrical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online The 30-credit MSE in Electrical Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides specialized training in control systems, wireless networks, digital signal processing, embedded systems, image processing and pattern recognition. Electrical System Analytics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Analytics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Strengthen your skills in power system planning and operation with the graduate certificate in electrical system analytics from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses in the nine-credit program will introduce you to the foundations, emerging practices, and real-world applications of data analytics and machine learning for power systems. Electrical System Equipment, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Equipment, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Courses for this graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn provide practical knowledge of electrical system equipment and the fundamentals of power electronics and machines. The certificate program offers an ideal opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a career shift. Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Explore electrical power system planning and operation in this graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Some of the topics covered include generation planning, transmission planning, and distribution planning. This is an excellent opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a car Electrical System Protection and Control, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Protection and Control, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online One of the most critical issues facing our nation is protecting the electrical grid and major electricity users from cyberattacks. This graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn focuses on protecting electrical systems from faults, communication models for monitoring and controlling electrical systems, and cybersecurity for the smart grid. The pro Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Our PhD in Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering at UM-Dearborn is a full-time, research-based degree designed to train students to conduct original, high quality translational research and develop innovative technologies in the fields of electrical, electronics, and computer engineering. We’ve designed the program primarily for students interested in research Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online We’ve designed this 30-credit graduate program to meet the rising demand for engineers with in-depth knowledge about alternative and renewable energy production, utilization and demand. You’ll acquire systems-based knowledge in energy systems and sustainability through core and concentration courses. Engineering Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Engineering Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Our master’s degree program at UM-Dearborn integrates the technical and management aspects of engineering, providing students with a holistic understanding of their roles as future engineering managers. Even if you have a graduate degree in engineering, you’ll find that pursuing the master’s in engineering management will give you even greater mastery of both technology an Engineering of Electrified Vehicular Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Engineering of Electrified Vehicular Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Explore the fundamental principles of vehicle electrification and their application to emerging automotive technologies in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. In four courses, you’ll learn about automotive powertrains, vehicle electronics, battery technology, electric and hybrid drives, and much more. Environmental Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Environmental Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Our graduate program in environmental science at UM-Dearborn is small, which ensures you receive lots of personal attention from our faculty and their help in crafting an individualized plan of study and research that meets your professional goals. Finance, MS Master's Degree Online Finance, MS Master's Degree Online Pursue a concentration in corporate finance or investments in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. In our comprehensive curriculum, you’ll learn everything from how to analyze and manage risk in a global setting to how to estimate the value of real or financial assets. Financial Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Financial Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online This program combines traditional finance with essential quantitative skills, data analytics, and computational techniques for data-driven decision-making in the financial sector. Game Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Game Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online If you have an undergraduate degree in computer science or computer engineering, the graduate certificate in game design from UM-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to pursue a career creating computer games. You’ll learn some theory, but the program’s focus is on hands-on development of computer games. Healthcare Administration and Leadership, MS Master's Degree Online Healthcare Administration and Leadership, MS Master's Degree Online Whether you’re currently a healthcare leader or you aspire to become one, you can advance your career with the skills you’ll learn in our master’s degree program. Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Learn how to research, identify, document, and translate user requirements and needs, generate creative ideas, and implement and evaluate products and services in a scientific way with the master’s degree in human-centered design and engineering from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online This program at UM-Dearborn is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, improving, and evaluating large integrated systems that include people, materials, information, equipment, and energy. Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online If you want to acquire the advanced knowledge needed to become a creative researcher, technical leader, and technology innovator in industrial and systems engineering, our PhD program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is for you. Industrial Mechatronics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Industrial Mechatronics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Industrial mechatronics is a versatile field that merges mechanical, electrical, and computer engineering through intelligent design. At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, we offer a rich, interdisciplinary curriculum for this graduate certificate that delves into both the traditional foundations and the emerging areas of this field. Information Systems and Technology, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Information Systems and Technology, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online This 30-credit program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is ideal for engineers, computer scientists, business people, and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, managing, improving, and evaluating integrated enterprise-wide information systems. The program emphasizes using business processes and enterprise resource planning software to int Information Systems, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Information Systems, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Develop skills in enterprise systems, analytics, and AI at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The MS in Information Systems is evolving into an enhanced MS in Business Analytics with an Intelligent Systems focus, preparing you for data-driven roles across industries. Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA Master's Degree Online Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA Master's Degree Online Embark on an in-depth exploration of instructional design principles, learning technology tools, and strategies to create effective educational experiences for diverse audiences in our fully online Master’s Degree. Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online This graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn introduces the core concepts of intelligent systems and a broad range of techniques for building, testing, and evaluating intelligent systems. It includes plenty of hands-on practice so you can apply your learning to real-world problems. Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online The master’s program in manufacturing analytics engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides courses in both engineering and management. It’s designed to educate manufacturing professionals who will be designing, building, and managing the innovative production systems needed to compete in today’s world. Marketing Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Marketing Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Master data-driven marketing with a STEM-designated program featuring courses in analytics, AI, digital strategy, and marketing research. Marketing, MS Master's Degree Online Marketing, MS Master's Degree Online Learn how to understand and influence customer behavior in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. We’ve designed the courses to maximize your career readiness, whether you’re interested in digital marketing, brand management, advertising, customer relationship management, data analytics, or another facet of marketing. Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Mid-career professionals who work in government or nonprofit organizations and are committed to learning and developing as individuals, administrators, and policymakers are the primary audience for our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Learn about the impact of processing variables on the properties of final products and how to make informed decisions about materials selection and product design in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The program also enables you to explore composites, lightweight materials, and the digital manufacturing landscape. Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Obtain a comprehensive background in materials science and advanced engineering applications in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The development of new materials drives innovations across many industries, and is especially critical to the automotive industry. The knowledge and skills you gain in your master’s degree program will put you o Mechanical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Mechanical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online What do you want to learn about mechanical engineering? It’s pretty much your choice in the master’s in mechanical engineering program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online We’ve designed our PhD program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn for talented students who will conduct original, innovative research in the engineering field, educate future generations, and play leading roles in developing cutting-edge technologies while working in industry, academia, or government. Modeling and Simulations in Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Modeling and Simulations in Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Unlock the power of numerical modeling and simulations in engineering with our graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our interdisciplinary curriculum is rich in both fundamental principles and modern applications. With no required core courses, you have the freedom to select courses that suit your personal interests and career goals. Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate program in plastic and composite materials bridges theory and practice in one of the fastest-growing areas of engineering. Our curriculum focuses on the design and manufacture of plastics and composite materials, particularly for automotive applications. Your courses will include practice-based learning about design, testing, manufacturing, and qua Program and Project Management, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Program and Project Management, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online From major corporations to tech start-ups, every industry needs skilled managers to ensure that programs and projects are completed on schedule, on budget, and with high-quality outcomes. Our graduate certificate in program and project management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is ideal for professionals who want to enhance their capabilities in managing complex pro Program and Project Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Program and Project Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online As a student in our graduate program at UM-Dearborn, you’ll master the art of managing complex programs and projects. You’ll learn how to efficiently plan and organize resources so that programs and projects are completed on schedule, on budget, and with high-quality results. The program is ideal for professionals who want to enhance their ability to coordinate major proje Robotics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Robotics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Work hands-on with robots while gaining a deep understanding of important concepts in robotics, electrical and computer engineering, systems engineering, and mechanical engineering in our master’s degree program in robotics engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Software Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Software Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online The 12-credit Graduate Certificate in software engineering includes core engineering courses and electives that provide a graduate introduction to software engineering, software reliability, management, interface design, and case studies. Software Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Software Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online As the field of software engineering continues growing in complexity, the demand for engineers with advanced knowledge and skills continues skyrocketing. A Master of Science in software engineering degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn will give you what it takes to meet today’s software challenges. Supply Chain Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Supply Chain Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online To succeed in the global economy, companies need effective, highly trained supply chain managers to help minimize costs and maximize efficiency in manufacturing and distributing products. Systems Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Systems Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate in systems engineering at UM-Dearborn is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for defining, planning, managing, and supporting large integrated systems. The program seeks to enhance both your technical competencies and your management skills. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Earn your certificate through this fully online program and be prepared to teach English locally, nationally, and globally. Teaching, MA Master's Degree Online Teaching, MA Master's Degree Online The program prepares you to be a dynamic and effective middle school or high school educator in a subject of your choice. Vehicle Electronics and Controls, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Vehicle Electronics and Controls, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides an in-depth understanding of both analog and digital electronics integral to modern vehicles. You'll master the design of commonly used electrical circuits and gain hands-on experience with microprocessors. Our program includes practical laboratory work and group design projects, offering hand Load All Programs Showing 10 out of 75 Results Showing 75 out of 75 Results Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Request Information Apply