Education, EdD Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Education, EdD CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Ed.D. Handbook Reach the Pinnacle in Education StudiesStarting Fall 2026, this program will be a fully online program.Whatever your aspirations may be in your career as an educator, the Doctorate in education from the University of Michigan-Dearborn will help you fulfill them. This degree provides the knowledge, skills, and credentials you need to conduct education research, work in education policy making, fill a top administrative role in PK-12 or postsecondary education, teach at a college or university, and so much more.Where a Doctorate in Education Will Take YouPretty much anywhere you want. The degree will give you the knowledge and tools to transform education wherever you work, whether you lead a PK-12 public school district, fulfill an administrative role at a college or university, teach future educators at the postgraduate level, conduct your own research to explore educational questions or problems, or contribute through some other professional venture. Program Details What You’ll Study The fully-online program, which is designed to be completed over a minimum of four years, has five parts:12 credits include seminar and theory core courses in subjects exploring curriculum and practice, educational leadership, history of education, educational psychology, and special education.12 credits support candidates research and scholarly development through qualitative and quantitative research methods and two sessions of scholarly workshop to develop your academic voice.21 credits focused on leadership courses to develop your professional understanding of organizational development and theory, critical pedagogy, strategies planning, policy analysis, and technology. Many courses include clinical experience opportunities.3 credits of CEHHS graduate-level elective (in consultation with your advisor).12 credits dedicated to a Dissertation in Practice. Explore Program Requirements Central Office Administration The leadership courses provide students the ability to develop the leadership and administrative skills needed to identify, solve, and anticipate the challenges facing educational contexts. Students graduating from this program will be prepared to lead in different capacities, one of which includes Central Office Administration. Students who choose to earn this certification may be recommended to the Michigan Department of Education for the MDE-required Central Office Administrator Certificate for educators in, or aspiring to, a PK-12 district central office leadership position. Ed.D. Alumni Scholarship Fund This scholarship fund originated as an idea in 2017 and was established by generous graduates of the Doctorate of Education program in 2018, most of whom were from the early cohorts when the Ed.D. program was launched. The $10,000 to establish the fund was raised through donations and multi-year pledges. Donors to the fund include Ed.D. alumni, UM-Dearborn faculty and administrators, as well as friends of the University.The fund is expected to generate a $500 annual scholarship for Ed.D. students.Everyone is invited to make a donation to the fund. Admissions Requirements The GRE is not required for admission to this program. You must submit the following with your application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institutionMaster's degree with a 3.3 GPA or higherTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purposeAt least 3 years of teaching experience or the equivalent in a professional setting is required. Education Doctoral Graduate List The Education Doctoral Graduate List features those who have earned their Doctorate in Education, with links to their dissertations and the faculty members they collaborated with. This list highlights both graduates' scholarly contributions and the membership they received, showcasing the collaborative academic environment of the Education program. Education Doctoral Graduate List Ed.D. Handbook Check out the Ed.D. Handbook to learn more about the stages of the Ed. D. program, requirements, forms, and defending your proposal. Ed.D. Handbook Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program admits for the Fall term only and operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by March 15 for consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. View Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Postsecondary Education Administrators Postsecondary Teachers Instructional Coordinators Elementary, Middle, and High School Principals Postsecondary Education Administrators $103,960 Median SalaryPostsecondary Education Administrators Employment of postsecondary education administrators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 15,100 openings for postsecondary education administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Postsecondary Teachers $83,980 Median SalaryPostsecondary Teachers Overall employment of postsecondary teachers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 114,000 openings for postsecondary teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Instructional Coordinators $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinators Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Elementary, Middle, and High School Principals $104,070 Median SalaryElementary, Middle, and High School Principals Employment of elementary, middle, and high school principals is projected to decline 2 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 20,800 openings for elementary, middle, and high school principals are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Educational Leadership, MA Education Specialist Program, EdS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit