Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Finance, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Finance, MS College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Finance 4+1 Financial Analytics 4+1 Dual Degree Programs Redesigned for Fall 2025Develop the Expertise to Lead in FinanceBuild the knowledge and analytical skills essential for a successful finance career. The MS in Finance at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides expertise in key financial areas, including corporate finance, investments, risk management, and financial statement analysis. You’ll learn how to analyze and manage risk in a global setting and estimate the value of financial assets.Also, be sure to check out our NEW program in Financial Analytics, which combines financial expertise with advanced data analytics and computational skillsYou can earn your degree entirely online, in the evening on campus, or a combination of both. Most of our students enroll part time, but full-time students can usually complete the program in 12-16 months.Want to jump start your degree? If you’re a current UM-Dearborn undergraduate student and you’ve been admitted to the master’s program, you can take up to six graduate credits during your final undergraduate semester.Where a Master’s in Finance Will Take YouOur MS in Finance prepares you for success in corporate finance, investment management, risk assessment, and banking. You’ll develop expertise in financial analysis, asset valuation, and portfolio management--critical skills for advancing your career in the financial industry. Program Details What You’ll Study The MS in Finance curriculum starts with foundation courses in accounting, economics, statistics, business analytics, and finance fundamentals, providing essential knowledge.You’ll then take six core courses covering advanced corporate finance, investment management, derivatives, fintech, and financial statement analysis.Finally, you can choose one to four electives, such as investment fund management, fixed income securities, cost management, and courses in data structures and algorithmic finance using Python.The program requires 30-33 credit hours, depending on whether your previous coursework qualifies you to waive foundation courses in accounting, economics, business statistics, or finance. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Financial Analysis: Learn to evaluate financial performance, manage risks, and apply valuation techniques.Risk Management: Gain expertise in managing global financial risks, using tools like derivatives and portfolio theory.Real-Time Market Data: Many of your courses will use the Bloomberg Finance Lab’s vast data to enhance learning and decision-making.Bloomberg Certification: Earn your Bloomberg Market Concepts certification, a valuable credential in finance.Effective Communication: Develop the ability to clearly convey financial insights to stakeholders. Online Option Our online programs meet the same course requirements and admission standards as campus-based programs, and your diploma and transcript will be identical. Whether you complete your degree online, on campus, or in a hybrid format, it’s the same degree. Online students are welcome to enroll in campus-based courses and are encouraged to take advantage of campus resources and in-person events, like professional organizations and study-abroad opportunities.Asynchronous Virtual ClassroomCollege of Business online courses follow the regular semester schedule and are mostly delivered asynchronously. This means your professors will set deadlines, but you’ll have flexibility in when you complete assignments, tests, and activities. Unless specified, there’s no need to log in at a specific time, allowing you to participate from anywhere with internet access! To keep you engaged, our online courses often include group discussions, videos, projects, and quizzes or exams.Personalized Attention and SupportAs an online graduate student, you’ll have direct access to your professors, just as if you were on campus. You’ll also receive priority registration for online courses each semester. For academic advising, call us at 313-593-4776 to schedule a phone appointment during daytime or early evening hours, or email quick questions to umd-cobgradadvisor@umich.edu. While not required, we encourage online students to take advantage of campus resources and events, including professional organizations and study-abroad opportunities. Additionally, you’ll have full access to digital resources like the UM-Dearborn library. Course Waivers and Transfer Credit Previous coursework deemed substantially similar to ACC 505, BE 530, DS 520 or BA 510, and FIN 531, if completed with a grade of "B" or better, may qualify to waive students from those courses. Students who receive 1-4 foundation course waivers may reduce the length of the program from 11 courses (33 credits) to 10 courses (30 credits).In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for previous equivalent graduate coursework can be applied to the degree if those credits have not been counted toward a degree. Waives and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Domestic applicants:Fall term: August 1Winter term: December 1Summer term: April 1 (part-time students only)International applicants:Fall term: May 1Winter term: September 1(International not eligible for summer admission)Admission is rolling. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term, but applications and materials will be accepted until the posted "Last Day to Submit". View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents Accountants and Auditors Personal Financial Advisors Financial Analysts Financial Managers Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents $78,140 Median SalarySecurities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents Employment of securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 38,100 openings for securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Accountants and Auditors $81,680 Median SalaryAccountants and Auditors Employment of accountants and auditors is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 124,200 openings for accountants and auditors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Personal Financial Advisors $102,140 Median SalaryPersonal Financial Advisors Employment of personal financial advisors is projected to grow 10 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 24,100 openings for personal financial advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Managers $161,700 Median SalaryFinancial Managers Employment of financial managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,600 openings for financial managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Financial Analytics, MS Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Business Administration, MBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Connect with Us