French Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program French Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Meet the Faculty Prepare for a Career in the U.S. or AbroadOur bachelor’s degree program in French Studies gives you a thorough training in the language and culture of the 200 million people who live in France and other French-speaking countries in Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, and the Caribbean.Where a French Studies Degree Will Take YouUpon graduation, you’ll have the foundational skills you need for careers in numerous fields, both in the United States and abroad. You’ll be prepared for careers in fields like government service, journalism, translation, and interpreting. If you take additional courses in complementary areas like political science, education, or management, your career opportunities broaden to include international business and education, among others. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Writers and Authors Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our comprehensive French studies program is geared toward giving you a holistic understanding of the French culture and language. The courses include language studies (including business French) and a broad education in cultural subjects like film and literature of the French-speaking world. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your courses will include practical assignments and opportunities that mimic real-world scenarios. We also encourage all French studies majors to take advantage of study abroad opportunities in Versailles or Paris or an internship with a Canadian Member of Parliament.Writing: Write effectively in FrenchSpeaking: Speak effectively in FrenchReading: Read critically in FrenchComprehending: Comprehend French when spokenCultural Literacy: Identify and appreciate cultural differencesLiterature: Familiarity with French literary historyDevelop understanding of literary genres and traditions and the role of diverse voices within the traditional literary canon Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in French (FREN). Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Viewing the world with a different aspect helps me see things from a different perspective instead of only one. MAYA KABBASH, FRENCH STUDIES How to Get Involved You can join other UM-Dearborn students in the French Club, attend French films with friends from French studies, check out more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs International Studies, BA Arabic Studies, BA Hispanic Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit