Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS CASL Graduate Programs draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty Mathematics and Statistics College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Help Solve Complex Industrial, Scientific ProblemsOur master's degree in Applied and Computational Mathematics at the University of Michigan - Dearborn prepares you to work in a variety of industrial and scientific settings. You will learn to construct and rigorously analyze mathematical and statistical models, to use modern software for data analysis, and to develop efficient computational algorithms.The program is geared toward professionals seeking advanced training, individuals wishing to shift their career trajectory toward data analysis, and fresh graduates wanting deeper insights into applied mathematics and statistics. Ambitious undergraduate math majors can enter the accelerated track, completing their undergraduate and Applied and Computational Mathematics masters' degree in a total of 5 years.We schedule most of our courses in the late afternoon or evening, making the program ideal for people employed full time.Where an MS in Applied and Computational Mathematics Will Take YouA master’s degree in applied and computational mathematics gives you the advanced knowledge and skills you need to excel in a variety of high-demand industrial and scientific careers. Your ability to leverage mathematical and statistical techniques in solving real-world problems and to use modern tools for data analysis will make you a valued addition to any team. Program Details What You’ll Study You will take core courses in modeling, analysis and scientific computing. Depending on your interests, you can specialize in mathematical and/or statistical analysis. Cognate courses from other disciplines will strengthen your interdisciplinary knowledge and skills. During your master's project you will work with one of our dedicated and experienced faculty members to formulate and research a topic of your interest. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Comprehension of the principles and theories of applied mathematics and statistics.Skill in the construction and analysis of mathematical models.Skill in the analysis and development of efficient computational mathematical algorithms.Ability to apply the first three items in industrial and scientific settings.We’ve included opportunities for practice-based learning throughout the curriculum, letting you apply the knowledge you’ve gained to real-world scenarios. More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree in mathematics, statistics, computer and information science, engineering, a physical science, or a life science from an accredited program with a minimum GPA of 3.0.Students with degrees in other fields or GPAs below 3.0 may be considered for conditional admission and may be required to submit evidence of their potential for success in the program.Applicants must have completed three calculus courses, including multivariate calculus; a course in linear algebra (or a combined course in differential equations and linear algebra); and an introductory course in probability or statistics. Applicants who lack this background may be considered for admission, but they must make up any missing courses after entrance to the program.You should include the following with your application:A one-page statement of purpose regarding your career goals and objectives in pursuing the programTwo letters of recommendation, with at least one addressing your academic background Earn Your Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in Five Years (4+1) The Accelerated Masters Studies Option (4+1 Option) in Mathematics and Applied and Computational Mathematics (MATH-ACM) is designed to allow motivated students to earn both a B.S. or B.A. in Mathematics and an M.S. in Applied and Computational Mathematics with one additional year of coursework. This is achieved by a double-counting allowance of up to 16 credits or five graduate level (500-level or above) courses. One additional year of graduate work (15 credits) would be needed to complete the Master's program enabling students to earn two degrees in a total of five years.Applying to the 4+1/Accelerated option is a two-stage process coordinated with both your undergraduate and graduate advising teams. For detailed instructions and application links, please visit the central 4+1 programs webpage. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mathematicians and Statisticians Operations Research Analysts Actuaries Financial Analysts Market Research Analysts Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Market Research Analysts $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analysts Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. I love how small the classrooms are, how well you connect to your professors and get to know other students in your program. Samantha Yassine, MS In Applied And Computational Mathematics, '17 How to Get Involved You can work as a tutor in the Math Learning Center, join the Association for Women in Mathematics chapter, the Mathematics Club, attend Mathematics Colloquia sponsored by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, participate in department events like the annual Career Panel, Women in Math celebrations and Pi Day 3/14, explore general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much, much more. Related Programs Data Science, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Software Engineering, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit