Bioengineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Bioengineering, MSE Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Pursue One of Engineering’s Most Exciting FieldsBioengineering is a field that gives you the opportunity to profoundly impact society by improving the quality of human life. Bioengineers do everything from designing and building artificial organs to creating more efficient drug development technologies. Our master’s program in bioengineering at UM-Dearborn provides the advanced training you need to excel in this rapidly growing field.The 30-credit program combines online and on-campus courses. Most bioengineering courses are offered one night per week from 6 p.m. to 8:45 p.m.Research assistantships may be available to exceptionally qualified students who are not otherwise employed. Tuition scholarships are available for full-time graduate students.Where an MSE in Bioengineering Will Take YouAn advanced degree in bioengineering opens the door to a multitude of careers. High-tech start-ups, biomedical engineering firms, pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, and laboratories are just a few examples of potential employers that will welcome your knowledge and skills. Program Details What You’ll Study The program offers enormous flexibility, letting you design a curriculum that matches your personal interests and professional goals. Only two of your 10 courses are required:Advanced Molecular and Cell BiologyAdvanced Engineering AnalysisYou choose six bioengineering electives from more than a dozen options that cover topics like fundamentals of drug delivery, biophotonics and optical metrology, nanobiosystems engineering, biomechanics, and regenerative engineering.Finally, you choose two cognate courses outside the field of bioengineering from more than 40 options about a huge range of subjects. If you’re interested in an in-depth study of a specific topic or a faculty-guided research, you may enroll in independent study or master’s thesis courses.. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain We place a strong emphasis on practice-based learning. Our bioengineering laboratories offer access to the latest equipment and provide hands-on opportunities to learn and to work with faculty on research projects. The laboratories provide practical experiences in cell and tissue engineering, biomechanics, injury processes, imaging, bioprocessing, sensing, developing and characterizing biomaterials, and nanotheranostics.More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available through internships and on-campus research. Talk to your professors to learn more. Online Options The program may be completed through a combination of on-campus and online courses. (Currently, only non-BENG courses are available with online sections.) Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a Bachelor of Science degree in bioengineering or a related engineering or science discipline from an accredited program with a minimum GPA of 3.0.Students from non-bioengineering fields are often admitted but may be required to take preparatory courses before or after starting the program. To have your background reviewed before you apply, contact the bioengineering graduate program coordinator at umd-megrad@umich.edu.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest.Applicants with lower GPAs or with non-engineering degrees in science or mathematics may be considered for admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Bioengineers and Biomedical Engineers Medical Scientists Biochemists and Biophysicists Environmental Engineers Chemical Engineers Bioengineers and Biomedical Engineers $106,950 Median SalaryBioengineers and Biomedical Engineers Employment of bioengineers and biomedical engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,300 openings for bioengineers and biomedical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Medical Scientists $100,590 Median SalaryMedical Scientists (PhD usually required) Employment of medical scientists is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for medical scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists (PhD usually required) Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Engineers $104,170 Median SalaryEnvironmental Engineers Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,000 openings for environmental engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemical Engineers $121,860 Median SalaryChemical Engineers Employment of chemical engineers is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,100 openings for chemical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. How to Get Involved You can get experience as a graduate student instructor or research assistant. You also can join the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Society of Women Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond MSE Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Related Programs Mechanical Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit