Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Marketing, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Marketing, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Marketing 4+1 Marketing Analytics 4+1 Google AdWords certification Get Inside the Consumer MindThe proliferation of smartphones and other electronic devices today makes it harder than ever before for marketers to attract consumer attention to their products, services, and experiences. Our marketing program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will give you the skills to create and implement marketing strategies that cut through the clutter to attract and connect with customers.Where a Marketing Major Will Take YouYour marketing degree from UM-Dearborn will prepare you for a wide range of careers in marketing management, advertising, sales, marketing research, new product development, retailing, international business, purchasing, management of nonprofit organizations, general business management, and related areas. Marketing is also an excellent major if you want to start your own business. And it provides a solid foundation for graduate studies, such as in our marketing master’s degree program at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Public Relations Specialists Market Research Analysts Public Relations and Fundraising Managers Sales Managers Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Market Research Analysts $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analysts Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations and Fundraising Managers $132,870 Median SalaryPublic Relations and Fundraising Managers Overall employment of public relations and fundraising managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 10,200 openings for public relations and fundraising managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sales Managers $138,060 Median SalarySales Managers Employment of sales managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 49,000 openings for sales managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your program will include 29 credits in BBA prerequisites and 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, giving you a broad background in general business topics such as accounting, business writing, economics, business statistics, project management and leadership, corporate responsibility, strategic management, corporate finance, and business law, among other subjects.Your 21-credit major consists of five required courses and two electives you choose from a dozen options. The required courses cover subjects like understanding customers, marketing research, and global marketing and consumer culture. The electives explore topics like digital marketing, business to business marketing, and digital analytics and content marketing. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain As a marketing major, you’ll gain hands-on experiences through case studies and projects in your courses. You also can get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, study abroad in Italy, assist with real-world research at our iLabs research institute, help your fellow students become more effective business communicators as a consultant at the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Explore Minor Requirements Requirements for Minor/Concentration The 15-credit marketing minor consists of three required courses and two electives you choose from a dozen options. Fast-Track Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees with a 4+1 Program Marketing Majors: Accelerate Your Path to a Master’s DegreeUM-Dearborn marketing majors can earn both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in just five years through our Marketing 4+1 and Marketing Analytics 4+1 programs. These accelerated options allow you to complete either the Master of Science in Marketing or the Master of Science in Marketing Analytics with significant savings in both time and cost.Students may double-count up to five graduate-level marketing courses toward their undergraduate degree. Not only do you save the time associated with completing five graduate courses, but you also pay the undergraduate tuition rate for those same graduate courses. Students who continue on to complete the master’s program can save approximately $17,000, based on part-time enrollment at resident tuition rates. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, opportunities abound outside the classroom. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, volunteer for a community project through the Office of Student Life, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include the American Marketing Association, Alpha Kappa Psi, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Society for Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Programs Offered Beyond BBA Marketing, MS Marketing Analytics, MS Business Administration, MBA Related Programs Business Analytics, BBA General Business, BBA Information Systems Management, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit