Breadcrumb Home Strategic Planning Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan In this section In this section Strategic Planning Toggle Submenu Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan Toggle Submenu UG Graduation and Student Retention Summit Inspiration and Resources Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan University of Michigan-Dearborn’s Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) plan reflects our ongoing campus efforts in meeting enrollment and student success goals as defined by our strategic plan.SummaryOur overarching purpose remains to attract, retain and graduate students guided by our mission to offer a caring, inclusive community that commits to teaching, learning, research and scholarship, as well as access and affordability. Our campus is focused on implementing strategic initiatives that support our students' access and success to facilitate recruitment and enrollment goals. Our campus works collaboratively to identify key strategies that foster long term enrollment and fiscal sustainability. SEM Tracking Resources The following support our ongoing monitoring and assessment of these efforts: SEM Plan Key Performance Indicators Annual assessment of student and retention enrollment trends Enrollment Dashboards Access key dashboards on new and continuing enrollment trends Communications and Updates Throughout the SEM planning process, progress updates and other information will be shared with the campus community. Key documents that summarize both active and planned initiatives previously available on this site have been removed as they may not meet the accessibility standards required in SPG 601.20. Please contact us em-strategic@umich.edu if you are interested in being sent the original published plan and/or comprehensive summary of currently active initiatives.Read the latest SEM updatesHighlights from the 2026 State of the University (February 18, 2026)Takeaways from the Oct. 1 forum with President Grasso (October 6, 2025)Takeaways from the Sept. 23 Conversation with the Chancellor (September 29, 2025)A look into Fall 2025 enrollment (September 22, 2025)Fall ’24 shows robust enrollment performance for UM-Dearborn (September 24, 2024)Takeaways from the 2024 State of the University (February 14, 2024)First-year enrollment is highest in university history (September 27, 2023)What’s next when it comes to recruitment and retention (May 15, 2023)Dearborn Wolverines say the Go Blue Guarantee is changing their lives (March 13, 2023)Have a campus question? Student mentors have answers (September 2, 2022)Got campus questions? This new service has answers (August 23, 2021)Regents approve UM-Dearborn budget and extension of Go Blue Guarantee (June 17, 2021)New UM-Dearborn program helps re-enrolling students complete degrees (August 11, 2020) Timeline Discovery (Spring/Summer 2022) Campus support In SEM planning, compile active initiatives, committees generate new ideas; enrollment landscape analysis Plan Drafted (Fall 2022) Drafted plan overview of the landscape, SWOT, Enrollment KPIs, and draft goals, objectives and tactics to focus on over the next five years. Plan Feedback Phase (December 2022-April 2023) Gather campus wide feedback on the plan, to ensure comprehensive reflection of active and future initiatives to impact recruitment and retention. Implementation Accountability and Assessment Phase (May 2023-ongoing) Implementation begins, guided by an accountability plan. Will continue to refine and monitor progress through the assessment plan.