Computer and Information Science, PhD Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer and Information Science, PhD CIS Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Path to Degree Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Prepare For a Career in Computer and Information Science ResearchOur Ph.D. in Computer and Information Science is a full-time, research-oriented degree for students interested in research and development careers in industry or academia. It equips you with the analytical skills needed to create innovative solutions for complex problems using high-quality translational research in computer and information science. Completing the CIS Ph.D. typically takes five years; the program has a time limit of seven years.To lessen financial concerns, all Ph.D. students receive full funding in the form of appointments as a graduate student instructor, a research assistant, or both. The appointments provide a monthly stipend, health insurance, and a tuition waiver. Students are guaranteed full funding for up to five years provided they maintain good academic standing and adequate progress toward their degree.Where a PhD in Computer and Information Science Will Take YouOur Ph.D. program prepares students for careers in academia, software development, data analysis, research sciences, and more. Our graduates have been recruited to join the faculties of the University of Chicago, the Rochester Institute of Technology, DePaul University, the University of Michigan-Flint, Central Michigan University, Kuwait University, and King Faisal University. They’ve also been hired to work at technology leaders such as Microsoft, eBay, Amazon, Ford, General Motors, and Quicken Loans. Program Details What You’ll Study Our robust curriculum includes both theoretical learning and practical applications. Coursework provides depth in one of the 4 areas:Data ManagementData ScienceSystems and SecuritySoftware EngineeringYou’ll develop a personalized Plan of Study with your faculty advisor when you begin the program, and you and your advisor will review it annually. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our emphasis on research and practice-based learning means that you won't just learn in the classroom. You’ll conduct research alongside faculty, work on real-world projects, and gain valuable skills through in-depth exploration of advanced topics. Students can take part in various workshops, seminars, and networking events. Application Requirements To be considered for admission, you must have:A bachelor’s or master’s degree in engineering, applied mathematics, computer science, or physical science from an accredited institution.A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 for the bachelor’s degree and 3.5 for the master’s degree.Completed 12 credits in calculus and one course each in linear algebra, data structures, computer organization, operating systems, and calculus-based probability and statistics.To apply, you should include with your application:Three professional letters of recommendation, with at least one from previous facultyAn academic statement of purpose indicating the intended field(s) of researchA personal statement that describes your background and life experiences and discusses what has motivated your decision to pursue a Ph.D. at the University of Michigan-Dearborn Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by February 1 for Fall consideration and August 1 for Winter consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer and Information Research Scientists Computer Systems Analysts Information Security Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Web Developers and Digital Designers Computer and Information Research Scientists $140,910 Median SalaryComputer and Information Research Scientists Employment of computer and information research scientists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,200 openings for computer and information research scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Web Developers and Digital Designers $95,380 Median SalaryWeb Developers and Digital Designers Overall employment of web developers and digital designers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for web developers and digital designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit