Communication, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Communication, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Learn How to Exert InfluenceCommunication is more than just speaking or writing. It's about making connections, understanding varying perspectives, and crafting messages that make an impact. Our program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn offers a variety of class exercises, assignments, and readings that help you blend theory with practical skills to communicate effectively in culturally diverse contexts.Where a Communication Degree Will Take YouCommunication skills are in high demand in every industry. You’ll be prepared to excel in fields such as public relations, marketing, social media management, journalism, corporate communications, and community advocacy, among many others. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Public Relations Specialists Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Writers and Authors Editors Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Editors $75,260 Median SalaryEditors Employment of editors is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 9,800 openings for editors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Our curriculum is a blend of theory and practice meant to equip you with an analytical toolbox. Your courses will focus on three interrelated areas of communication and cultural influence:Public relations and organizational culturesPublic advocacy and democratic culturesIntercultural and international communication and global culturesAll communication students are required to complete an internship where they can put what they’re learning into practice. Students with prior communication industry expertise may choose to instead write a senior thesis. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Writing effective audience-oriented texts within multiple communication contextsSpeaking effectively within multiple rhetorical contextsUnderstanding critically the histories and institutional contexts of communication practicesUnderstanding critically the research traditions and tools within the field of communicationUsing organizational, civic and global perspectives to analyze media content and institutionsIntegrating the theory and practice of communication in multiple contextsOur courses include class exercises and course assignments that simulate real-world experiences. More hands-on experiences are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses in communication (COMM/SPEE). One course is required, and you choose the other two from small groups of related courses.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the UM-Dearborn chapter of the Public Relations Student Society of America; write for the Michigan Journal, the daily student newspaper at UM-Dearborn; host a program on WUMD College Radio; help fellow students with writing assignments as a paid tutor at the Writing Center; assist with community outreach activities; check out any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus; and much more. Related Programs Journalism and Media Production, BA Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Public Relations, Certificate, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit