Information Systems and Technology, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Information Systems and Technology, MS IMSE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5361(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Boost Your Mastery of Enterprise-Wide Information SystemsThis 30-credit program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is ideal for engineers, computer scientists, business people, and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, managing, improving, and evaluating integrated enterprise-wide information systems. The program emphasizes using business processes and enterprise resource planning software to integrate major functional areas such as manufacturing, distribution, sales, and finance.You can take classes for the 30-credit degree in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where an MS in Information Systems and Technology Will Take YouThe degree will equip you with the required skills to manage and analyze the flow of information in the corporate world. You’ll be ready to take up roles where you’re responsible for enhancing the quality and efficiency of information systems in an organization. From data analyst to information systems manager to systems developer, the career paths are plentiful and rewarding. Program Details What You’ll Study What you study is largely your choice, since our program offers great flexibility. Only three courses are required:Database SystemsEnterprise Information SystemsObject Oriented System DesignFor the bulk of your program, you choose courses from one of seven concentrations:Information Management ApplicationsSupply Chain and Information Systems DesignInformation SecurityWeb Information ManagementInformation Systems EngineeringData Analytics and Sciencean individual concentration that student develops jointly with the Program AdvisorThe program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we believe in combining theory with practice for an optimum learning outcome. You’ll gain practical experience by working on real-world projects, enabling you to apply the theoretical knowledge acquired in the classroom.More opportunities for hands-on experiences is available in our research programs. Check out the page for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admissions Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree in engineering, a physical science, computer science, applied mathematics, business administration, or liberal arts from an accredited institution with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0.Applicants also must have taken a course in data structures and a course in computer programming such as C++ or Java. If needed, you can take these courses after admission to the program.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer Systems Analysts Information Security Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Network and Computer Systems Administrators Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. MS in Information Systems Technology It is not just about the technology; it is all about the enterprise system, and how integration between the system and the technology happens. Suvendu Bhutia, MS In Information Systems And Technology, ‘12 Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Related Programs Computer and Information Science, MS Data Science, MS Software Engineering, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit