Arab American Studies, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Arab American Studies, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College-Wide Programs College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore the Arab and Muslim Experience in AmericaCourses in this interdisciplinary certificate program help students understand how immigration, racism and discrimination, gender and sexuality, class, ethnicity, culture, and religion intersect in the lives of Arab and Muslim Americans.While the certificate is primarily focused on preparing students for working and living in our diverse metropolitan region and world, it also can help pave the way for numerous career opportunities. Students may find rewarding careers in public service, education, journalism, social work, human rights advocacy, law, and much more. This program can also serve as a great stepping stone for advanced studies leading to a wide range of academic and professional fields. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study For the 12-credit certificate you select one of two introductory courses, then choose three courses from 11 options. They cover subjects such as the history of Islam in the U.S., Arab American women writers, Middle East diasporas, immigration, and Arab American health, among others. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Arabic Studies, BA Middle East Studies, BA Arab American Studies, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit