Breadcrumb Home Community and Business Community and Business UM-Dearborn is more than a top-ranked university. We are an active community partner, an agent for change and a catalyst for local businesses and industry. Since our founding in 1959, University of Michigan-Dearborn has established effective, collaborative partnerships with businesses, schools, government agencies and nonprofits in our metropolitan region. Through these partnerships, we’ve created community initiatives, hands-on programs and business partnerships that engage our students, staff and faculty in our efforts to revive and renew southeast Michigan. We attract students who want to make a difference. They attend UM-Dearborn to take full advantage of our practice based learning and research opportunities, and they graduate work-ready and civic-minded. Nearly 80 percent of graduates stay in the region to continue working for and on behalf of local businesses and communities. Business Partnerships The Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is the central point of contact for private foundations and corporate partners interested in supporting university programs and research. We maintain and establish strategic relationships with foundations and corporations. Our team identifies opportunities to advance the university's and the organization's missions. Corporate and Foundation Relations Community Partnerships The Office of Community Engaged Learning supports and creates programs to engage students, faculty and community partners in mutually beneficial activities that impact southeast Michigan. We seek out and broker strategic community partnerships, provide faculty seed grants, and facilitate connecting students to meaningful engagement and internship opportunities. Office of Community Engaged Learning Resources UM-Dearborn houses a number of offices and centers that can be a resource for your business or organization. Explore our offerings below to learn how you can connect with the university. Career Services for Employers Center for Labor and Community Studies Dearborn Research Office Environmental Interpretive Center GEAR UP Hold an event at UM-Dearborn iLabs Office of Engagement and Impact Office of Student Life (Student Engagement) Talent Gateway