Manufacturing/ Mechanical Engineering, Dual BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Manufacturing/ Mechanical Engineering, Dual BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering Stand Out in the Job Market With Dual Engineering DegreesPlace yourself at the forefront of innovation and problem-solving with the dual BSE program in manufacturing and mechanical engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Designed for ambitious students intrigued by the complex mechanics of manufacturing processes and the intricacies of mechanical systems and tools, our program lets you obtain two BSE degrees at the same time. Jump-start your engineering career with a solid foundation in both disciplines, providing a competitive edge in the job market.The dual degrees require 143 credits, just 15 more than you need for a single degree. You can earn the additional credits by taking an extra class most semesters or extending your studies by one semester.Where A Manufacturing/Mechanical Engineering Degree Will Take MeUpon completion of the dual program, your broad knowledge in both fields of engineering will equip you for various high-demand roles in industries such as automotive, aerospace, energy, electronics, and more. Whether it's design and development, production, operations, or research, your versatile expertise can steer you toward endless career opportunities.You’ll also have a great background for pursuing graduate studies at UM-Dearborn in our programs in manufacturing systems engineering, mechanical engineering, and other engineering disciplines. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Industrial Engineers Materials Engineers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The curriculum integrates analytical, design and experimental studies, covering a range of essential subjects. From thermodynamics to ergonomics, the program is designed to build not only your technical skill-set but also your problem-solving, communication, and critical thinking abilities. You'll also be immersed in topics like material science, fluid mechanics and thermodynamics that are core components of both fields. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your courses will include hands-on work in our state-of-the-art labs and other opportunities for practice-based learning. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready To Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Alpha Pi Mu, the Institute of Industrial Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Mechanical Engineering, MSE Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Related Programs Mechanical Engineering, BSE Manufacturing Engineering, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit