Actuarial Mathematics, BA/BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Actuarial Mathematics, BA/BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Mathematics and Statistics Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Learn How to Manage Risk Actuarial mathematics is an interdisciplinary subject that straddles business, economics, mathematics, and statistics to focus on managing risk. In our bachelor’s program at UM-Dearborn, you’ll develop analytic and reasoning skills, apply theories and models to measure and manage risk, and prepare for three or more of the professional exams required to obtain Associate credentials from the Society of Actuaries (SOA) or the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS).Where an Actuarial Mathematics Degree Will Take YouYour degree will equip you to meet the ongoing demand for professionals at financial institutions, insurance companies, health care organizations, and large corporations. Typically, to qualify for these positions, you need to have passed at least one or two exams offered by the Society of Actuaries (SOA) or Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS). Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2023. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Actuaries Budget Analysts Data Scientists Financial Analysts Operations Research Analysts Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Budget Analysts $87,930 Median SalaryBudget Analysts Employment of budget analysts is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 3,100 openings for budget analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your program will include 25 credits of pre-major required courses about financial accounting, CSI for data scientists, macroeconomics, microeconomics, and calculus. The 37-credit major requirements focus on three areas: mathematics, applied statistics, and finance. You’ll take courses in probability, mathematical statistics, applied statistics, applied regression analysis, corporate finance, and related subjects.You also choose two elective courses from more than 15 options that cover economic statistics, health economics, financial planning, derivative markets, numerical analysis, and matrix computation, among other subjects.We’ve designed the program to prepare you to take three professional exams offered by the Society of Actuaries: Probability, Financial Mathematics, and Investment and Financial Markets. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Develop analytical and reasoning skillsApply theories and models to measure and manage riskIntegrate disciplines to create a breadth of knowledge in mathematics and statistics as well as finance and economicsPrepare for three of the professional exams required to obtain Associate credentials from the Society of Actuaries. The three Professional Exams addressed by this program are: Probability (P), Financial Mathematics (FM), Investment Finances and Models (IFM)We’ve inserted opportunities for practice-based learning throughout the curriculum, letting you apply the knowledge you’ve gained to real-world scenarios. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can work as a tutor in the Math Learning Center, join the Mathematics Club, attend Mathematics Colloquia sponsored by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, participate in department events like the annual Pi day 3.14 and Women in Math celebrations, check out general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and so much more. Programs Offered Beyond BA/BS Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Related Programs Applied Statistics, BA/BS Economics, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit