Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video General Business, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program General Business, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Learn Business Fundamentals and MoreChoose courses that interest you and will help you fulfill your professional dreams as a general business major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. General business is our business degree with the most flexibility, giving you a broad background in the fundamentals of business while also letting you tailor your education to meet your specific needs.Where a General Business Major Will Take YouWith a degree in general business, you’ll be equipped with versatile skills that you can apply to a career in business, government, nonprofit groups, and beyond. You’ll be ready to solve problems at a wide range of organizations, helping them prosper and grow. Your degree also provides a solid foundation for graduate studies, such as in our MBA program at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Management Analysts Financial Analysts Sales Managers Human Resources Managers Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Management Analysts $101,190 Median SalaryManagement Analysts Employment of management analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 98,100 openings for management analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,9100 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sales Managers $138,060 Median SalarySales Managers Employment of sales managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 49,000 openings for sales managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your program will include 29 credits in BBA prerequisites and 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, giving you a broad background in general business topics such as accounting, business writing, economics, business statistics, project management and leadership, corporate responsibility, strategic management, corporate finance, business law, and marketing, among other subjects.For your 18-credit major, you choose any upper-level courses in business (BUS) that aren’t part of the BBA Core. If you prefer, you can choose a concentration in pre-law that consists of one required course in business law, three upper-level business courses you choose that aren’t included in the BBA Core, and two non-business courses that you choose from a list of more than a dozen options. The non-business courses cover topics like American constitutional law, civil rights and liberties, antitrust and regulation, environmental law, and health care and the law. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Hands-on, real-world learning is emphasized throughout your courses. You also can study abroad in Italy or Taiwan, get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, help conduct real-world research at our iLabs research institute, help your fellow students become more effective business communicators as a consultant at the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Opportunities abound outside the classroom. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, volunteer for a community project through the Office of Student Life, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include Alpha Kappa Psi, American Marketing Association, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Society for Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Programs Offered Beyond BBA Business Administration, MBA Business Analytics, MS Marketing, MS Related Programs Marketing, BBA Finance, BBA Human Resource Management, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit