Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Difference Makers Class of 2026 Breadcrumb Home University of Michigan-Dearborn A Michigan Degree At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, we open the door to accessible higher education while equipping students with the practice-based experiences that enable them to excel, innovate and make a lasting difference. Search by keyword Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Four Colleges. 100+ Degrees. Boundless Opportunity. The University of Michigan-Dearborn is home to four colleges offering more than 100 undergraduate, graduate, doctoral and certificate programs. Our in demand degrees will help lead to your career success. Previous Erin Huckestein works with students on their vocabulary at our Early Childhood Education Center providing high quality early childhood programs. College of Education, Health, and Human Services If you were born to impact your community, the College of Education, Health, and Human Services is the place for you. Our highly regarded teacher certification program will help you prepare to be a star in your classroom, whatever grades or subjects beckon. If you're drawn to health care, social work, or sports management, our practice-based curriculum and community partnerships can help you become a leader — and a do-er — in these fields. Learn more about CEHHS Students work on an autonomous go-kart, part of CECS' Intelligent Systems Club project. College of Engineering and Computer Science From harnessing the power of artificial intelligence to improving the safety and efficiency of the vehicles we drive, today’s engineering landscape is filled with challenges — and opportunities. You’ll grab onto both with the expertise and hands-on skills you’ll develop in the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Our experienced faculty, state-of-the-art facilities, hands-on learning and industry partnerships ensure you’ll graduate ready to be a savvy problem solver in our rapidly evolving world. Learn more about CECS Students work together on a project in one of our science labs. College of Arts, Sciences, & Letters Aspire to cure cancer? Or to chase breaking news, improve local government, reform the criminal justice system, tackle environmental challenges or seek a career in psychology, math or economics? The College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters will prepare you for these exciting pursuits and many more. Learn more about CASL Yan Xie works with finance students in the Corporate Finance Models and Applications course. College of Business Whatever your dream may be – from starting your own business to working for a multinational firm – our top-ranked programs in the College of Business will help you stand out. You’ll gain the knowledge and skills you need to succeed in finance, digital marketing, supply chain management, information systems management or other business fields. Want more? Build on your solid undergraduate education or advance your career by continuing into our highly ranked MBA program. Learn more about COB Erin Huckestein works with students on their vocabulary at our Early Childhood Education Center providing high quality early childhood programs. College of Education, Health, and Human Services If you were born to impact your community, the College of Education, Health, and Human Services is the place for you. Our highly regarded teacher certification program will help you prepare to be a star in your classroom, whatever grades or subjects beckon. If you're drawn to health care, social work, or sports management, our practice-based curriculum and community partnerships can help you become a leader — and a do-er — in these fields. Learn more about CEHHS Students work on an autonomous go-kart, part of CECS' Intelligent Systems Club project. College of Engineering and Computer Science From harnessing the power of artificial intelligence to improving the safety and efficiency of the vehicles we drive, today’s engineering landscape is filled with challenges — and opportunities. You’ll grab onto both with the expertise and hands-on skills you’ll develop in the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Our experienced faculty, state-of-the-art facilities, hands-on learning and industry partnerships ensure you’ll graduate ready to be a savvy problem solver in our rapidly evolving world. Learn more about CECS Students work together on a project in one of our science labs. College of Arts, Sciences, & Letters Aspire to cure cancer? Or to chase breaking news, improve local government, reform the criminal justice system, tackle environmental challenges or seek a career in psychology, math or economics? The College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters will prepare you for these exciting pursuits and many more. Learn more about CASL Yan Xie works with finance students in the Corporate Finance Models and Applications course. College of Business Whatever your dream may be – from starting your own business to working for a multinational firm – our top-ranked programs in the College of Business will help you stand out. You’ll gain the knowledge and skills you need to succeed in finance, digital marketing, supply chain management, information systems management or other business fields. Want more? Build on your solid undergraduate education or advance your career by continuing into our highly ranked MBA program. Learn more about COB Erin Huckestein works with students on their vocabulary at our Early Childhood Education Center providing high quality early childhood programs. College of Education, Health, and Human Services If you were born to impact your community, the College of Education, Health, and Human Services is the place for you. Our highly regarded teacher certification program will help you prepare to be a star in your classroom, whatever grades or subjects beckon. If you're drawn to health care, social work, or sports management, our practice-based curriculum and community partnerships can help you become a leader — and a do-er — in these fields. Learn more about CEHHS Students work on an autonomous go-kart, part of CECS' Intelligent Systems Club project. College of Engineering and Computer Science From harnessing the power of artificial intelligence to improving the safety and efficiency of the vehicles we drive, today’s engineering landscape is filled with challenges — and opportunities. You’ll grab onto both with the expertise and hands-on skills you’ll develop in the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Our experienced faculty, state-of-the-art facilities, hands-on learning and industry partnerships ensure you’ll graduate ready to be a savvy problem solver in our rapidly evolving world. Learn more about CECS Next12341/4 Every Student. Every Background. You’ll get the power of a Michigan degree on a small campus where your professors will know you from day one. In addition to campus services, UM-Dearborn students have access to spaces and resources in Ann Arbor, including sporting events, student clubs and organizations and research opportunities.Sources can be viewed at the Facts and Figures page. Affordability Return on Investment Driving Student Success Small Class Sizes Affordability #1 The lowest average annual cost among 15 public Michigan universities Start your career without worrying about debt Return on Investment #4 median annual earnings of graduates among 15 public Michigan universities UM-Dearborn students are set up for financial success shortly after graduation Driving Student Success #1 regional public university in Michigan for social mobility Let your college degree set you up for a comfortable life ahead Small Class Sizes 1:16 faculty to student ratio You will know your professors and classmates A Michigan Degree With A Dearborn Drivetrain. Our students, faculty and staff are working together to transform Michigan and beyond. Be a part of it, while earning a recognizable and respected degree that will make a difference in your life and jumpstart your career. Learn How to Apply Current News View More News 5/6/2026 Gabriella Scarlatta appointed UM-Dearborn chancellor The U-M Board of Regents will vote on President Domenico Grasso’s recommendation at their May 21 meeting in Dearborn. 5/2/2026 Congrats, Class of Spring 2026! UM-Dearborn awarded 1,090 degrees during three commencement ceremonies on May 2 — helping U-M reach one million degrees conferred. 4/29/2026 Class of Spring 2026: CEHHS graduate Collin Miller The sports management major found his place at UM-Dearborn — and a clear path toward the future he wants in athletics. Along the way, he’s built lasting bonds and collected memories that will stay with him long after graduation. 4/27/2026 Happy 25th anniversary, EIC The Environmental Interpretive Center’s 25-year milestone celebrates the rich history of nature education and stewardship that’s taken place on the land for many years. The staff is hosting an anniversary event on May 16. View More News Upcoming Events More Events May 16 EIC's 25th Anniversary May 16, 2026 9:00 am -6:30 pm May 16 EIC 25th Anniversary: Stewardship Saturday May 16, 2026 2:30 pm -4:30 pm May 18 Main Campus Tour (5.18.26) May 18, 2026 3:00 pm -4:30 pm More Events Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Request Information Apply