Arabic Translation, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Arabic Translation, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Take Your Arabic Skills to a Professional LevelStudying Arabic translation at the University of Michigan-Dearborn puts you at an advantage in a world that values bilingual proficiency and intercultural competence. We’ve designed the 12-credit certificate program to help non-native speakers, heritage learners, and native speakers improve their command of the standard Arabic language and dialects to the professional level required for translating. The Arabic translation certificate opens a wide range of career avenues both locally and internationally. You could find employment in government agencies, the Arab American National Museum, local schools, banks, translation offices, legal and immigration services, health care institutions, and the tourism industry, among others. Alternatively, you may choose to use your translation skills to boost your competitiveness in fields like science, business, media, and the humanities. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You’ll develop advanced skills in written translation, simultaneous interpreting, and subtitling. Our hands-on approach ensures that you gain extensive practice and experience in translating Arabic and English in real-world contexts. As a bonus, you can apply all credits you earn for the certificate toward a number of majors, minors, and other certificates we offer at UM-Dearborn. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Arabic Studies, BA Middle East Studies, BA International Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit