Birth to Kindergarten Education, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Birth to Kindergarten Education, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Help the Youngest Minds Develop and GrowThe first years of children’s lives underpin their overall development, making early education vital to their future success. You can learn how to provide critical instruction in our birth to kindergarten education program at University of Michigan-Dearborn.In this Bachelor of Arts program, you learn about child development, relationship building, and special education, giving you the knowledge and skills needed to positively impact the lives of our youngest learners.Where A Birth to Kindergarten Education Degree Will Take YouUpon successfully completing the program and passing a state test, you will be certified by the Michigan Department of Education to work in early intervention and home visiting programs such as Early On. The degree also is excellent preparation for jobs such as preschool teacher and childcare center director. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Special Education Teacher Preschool and Childcare Center Director Preschool Teacher Instructional Coordinator Special Education Teacher $64,270 Median SalarySpecial Education Teacher Overall employment of special education teachers is projected to decline 1 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 37,800 openings for special education teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire.Special education teachers in public schools are required to have a bachelor’s degree and a state-issued certification or license. Teachers in private schools typically need a bachelor’s degree but may not be required to have a state license or certification. Preschool and Childcare Center Director $56,270 Median SalaryPreschool and Childcare Center Director Employment of preschool and childcare center directors is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 5,500 openings for preschool and childcare center directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Preschool Teacher $37,120 Median SalaryPreschool Teacher Employment of preschool teachers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 65,500 openings for preschool teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Instructional Coordinator $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinator (master’s usually required) Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study In our expansive curriculum, you’ll learn how to teach young children language arts, social studies, mathematics, and integrated science. Your other courses will explore topics such as the psychology of child development, partnerships with families of children with disabilities, child development from birth to age three, strategies for teaching young children, and technology in the classroom, among others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You’ll engage in early field work with children, complete at least two semesters of part-time teaching, and experience a full semester of student teaching. By the time you graduate, you’ll have taught for hundreds of hours, giving you the experience you need to succeed. Earn Your Teacher Certification During or following student teaching, you’ll take the Michigan Test for Teacher Certification. If you successfully complete your classes and pass the state test, the College of Education, Health, and Human Services will recommend you for certification to the Michigan Department of Education. The department will award your Michigan Standard Teaching Certificate, which allows you to teach all children from birth through kindergarten.The Michigan Department of Education has approved our teacher education programs. In addition, the College of Education, Health, and Human Services is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation. Licensure Statement The pathways in our Educator Preparation Program were designed to satisfy educational prerequisites to initial and advanced licensure in only the state of Michigan. We encourage students to contact the appropriate licensing agency in the state in which they are located or, if different, the state in which they intend to seek licensure for more information. While the Educator Preparation Program pathways may or may not fully satisfy educational prerequisites to licensure in other states, academic advisors work with students on an individual basis and are available to discuss teaching certifications and reciprocity opportunities in other states. In addition, the Education Commission of the States website provides solid information as to the expectations each state and the District of Columbia has for obtaining licensure beyond Michigan licensure. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Student Teaching through UM-Dearborn Become a teacher in the state of Michigan with engaging coursework and student teaching placements. How to Get Involved You’ll have numerous opportunities to get involved and enrich your learning experience on campus. Just a few examples include study groups, seminars, workshops, and extracurricular activities dedicated to early childhood education and more. You will have the chance to learn from peers, engage with faculty, and network with professionals in the field. Licensure Statement The pathways in our Educator Preparation Program were designed to satisfy educational prerequisites to initial and advanced licensure in only the state of Michigan. We encourage students to contact the appropriate licensing agency in the state in which they are located or, if different, the state in which they intend to seek licensure for more information. While the Educator Preparation Program pathways may or may not fully satisfy educational prerequisites to licensure in other states, academic advisors work with students on an individual basis and are available to discuss teaching certifications and reciprocity opportunities in other states. In addition, the Education Commission of the States website provides solid information as to the expectations each state and the District of Columbia has for obtaining licensure beyond Michigan licensure. Programs Offered Beyond BA Early Childhood Education, MA Education, MA Teaching, MA Related Programs Elementary Education, BA Secondary Education, BA Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit