Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video The Business School of Choice for Metro Detroit Business-ready. Dream-driven. Future-focused. Apply Now Breadcrumb Home College of Business At the University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Business, we bring ‘Dreams in Practice’ to life through hands-on learning and transformative experiences. Our top national rankings and AACSB accreditation reflect our commitment to excellence and continuous innovation. With a focus on inclusivity and sustainable economic growth, we prepare students to navigate modern business challenges and drive positive change in society. Majors and Minors Master's Programs Admissions Dean Frédéric Brunel “Guided by an exceptional faculty, we offer students real-world learning opportunities that empower them to address tomorrow’s challenges. Our future-ready programs equip students with the skills needed to succeed in a rapidly evolving job market. As the business school of choice in and for metro Detroit, we are uniquely positioned in the heart of the Detroit-Ann Arbor innovation corridor, connecting students to a dynamic network of opportunities. Through strong industry partnerships and experiential learning, we prepare students to lead and drive impact in their careers and communities.” Awards & Accreditations One of Michigan's top Undergraduate and Graduate Business Programs, U.S. News & World ReportNamed a "Best Business School" sixteen years in a row by The Princeton Review The College of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business-International (AACSB). Only about 25% of Business schools in the U.S. and less than 5% of over 16,000 Business schools worldwide have earned AACSB accreditation. Spotlight Stories More COB News 4/28/2026 UM-Dearborn Students Earn Honors at MWDSI Annual Conference 2026 Students from the University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Business earned top recognition at the Midwest Decision Sciences Institute (MWDSI) Annual Conference, held April 10-11, 2026, at Northern Kentucky University. 1/12/2026 Business educator and entrepreneur brings recipe from table to market College of Business lecturer W.E. Da’Cruz teaches students entrepreneurial thinking — while putting it into practice through her business venture. Da’Cruz’s plant-based burgers are available on all three U-M campuses and at a major grocery retailer. 2/11/2026 Support small shops and big ideas The College of Business’ Small Business Showcase will take place Feb. 17. Nearly 40 small businesses — owned by students, faculty, staff and community members — will offer a variety of items like clothing, food items and jewelry. 3/30/2026 A student veteran’s course project looks to serve vets in need MBA student Michael Matteis designed a veteran-focused mental health app for a classroom assignment — it’s now gaining attention in the field. View More News Upcoming Events More Events Jun 4 College of Business Virtual Graduate Programs Overview (6.4.26) June 4, 2026 12:00 pm -1:00 pm More Events Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Paying for College Apply