Bioengineering, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Bioengineering, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering CECS Scholarships College of Engineering and Computer Science Combine Science With Engineering to Improve the Quality of LifeOur undergraduate bioengineering program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn opens a world of opportunities to make a difference by improving the quality of human life. Bioengineering is a rapidly expanding multidisciplinary field that combines scientific principles from biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics with the best techniques from mechanical, electrical, chemical, and computer engineering and breakthrough advances developed in recent years.Bioengineering embraces a wide spectrum of activities. Bioengineers may:Design and build medical instruments, artificial organs, prosthetic limbs, therapeutic devices, and medical imaging equipmentDesign technically complex experiments to learn about biological systems, organs and diseasesHelp doctors develop new medical proceduresCreate more efficient drug development and manufacturing technologiesSolve safety, ergonomics, and comfort problems in consumer technologyIf you’d like to broaden your education, consider pursuing a dual B.S.E. in bioengineering and mechanical engineering, earning two degrees at the same time. The dual degrees require 143 credits–just 15 more than either degree requires alone.Where a Bioengineering Degree Will Take YouCareer opportunities are available at laboratories, biomedical engineering and pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, high-tech start-ups, and more traditional manufacturing industries like automotive. Bioengineering also provides an excellent background for students preparing for medical school or who want to continue their studies in bioengineering, such as in the bioengineering master’s program we offer at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Bioengineers and Biomedical Engineers Environmental Engineers Chemical Engineers Materials Engineers Health and Safety Engineers Bioengineers and Biomedical Engineers $106,950 Median SalaryBioengineers and Biomedical Engineers Employment of bioengineers and biomedical engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,300 openings for bioengineers and biomedical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Engineers $104,170 Median SalaryEnvironmental Engineers Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,000 openings for environmental engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemical Engineers $121,860 Median SalaryChemical Engineers Employment of chemical engineers is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,100 openings for chemical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health and Safety Engineers $109,660 Median SalaryHealth and Safety Engineers Employment of health and safety engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for health and safety engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your required courses will cover subjects like calculus, differential equations with linear algebra, general chemistry, anatomy and physiology for engineers, molecular and cellular biology, physics, thermodynamics, electrical engineering, thermofluid for bioengineering, bio-sensors and instrumentation, biomechanics, biomaterial tissue engineering, and bioprocessing, among many others.You choose six program electives from more than 30 options about a vast range of topics: drug delivery, microfluidics, nanobiosystems engineering, biomimetics, sound and noise controls, mechatronic systems, bioinformatics, regenerative engineering, organic chemistry, industrial robots, digital manufacturing, and many more. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain We believe in providing more than just theoretical knowledge. Our bioengineering program encourages practice-based learning, leading to technically complex experiments and the study of human organs, diseases, and biological systems. You’ll gain first-hand experience designing and creating new technologies, building a solid skill set for future challenges.More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) An accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in bioengineering in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to nine credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits in your bioengineering program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and meet other requirements. Explore Program Requirements Accreditation Our BSE in Bioengineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for bioengineering and biomedical and similarly named Engineering programs. Program Educational Objectives The Program Educational Objectives of the bioengineering program are that our graduates will: Be successfully employed in their discipline or a closely related field, while contributing to the economy and healthcareContinue to enhance their knowledge base and skills, through graduate degrees or other professional developments, to keep abreast of the ongoing changes in technology and health-related disciplinesBe well rounded and well suited to work with colleagues and professionals with diverse technical backgrounds, cultures and wide range of competencies including those related to healthcare Student Outcomes To achieve the educational objectives, the graduates of the program will have:1. an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics2. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors3. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences4. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts5. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives6. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions7. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. Student Enrollment and Graduation Data For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BSE in Bioengineering program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee UM-Dearborn | CECS | Dual BSE in Mechanical/Bioengineering How to Get Involved You can join the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Society of Women Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Bioengineering, MSE Mechanical Engineering, MSE Related Programs Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Engineering Mathematics, BSE Mechanical Engineering, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit