Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn How to Design a Quieter RideMany consumers want vehicles that ride quietly, but designing them presents a host of engineering challenges. You’ll learn about the connection between automotive structural design and noise, vibration, and harshness (NVH) in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.You can take all courses for the 12-credit certificate in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule them in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.You can apply credits earned for the certificate toward graduate degrees offered by UM-Dearborn’s Department of Mechanical Engineering.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study You create your own certificate program, choosing four courses from six options. The courses delve into the fundamental principles of acoustics and vibration theories, emphasizing how to apply them to solve practical vehicle NVH problems. They also cover the basics of vehicle dynamics, free and forced vibration systems, acoustic wave propagation and transmission, acoustic interior trim and floor covering designs, analysis with Statistical Energy Analysis technology, sound quality issues, and design of vehicle audio systems. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.There are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Electrical and Electronics Engineers Mechanical Engineers Industrial Designers Materials Engineers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Designers $79,450 Median SalaryIndustrial Designers Employment of industrial designers is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 2,500 openings for industrial designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Mechanical Engineering, MSE Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit