Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video African and African American Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program African and African American Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College-Wide Programs Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore the African and African American ExperiencesStudy the history and cultural legacies of Africans and African Americans, the intellectual contributions of major African and African American scholars and cultural figures, and the crucial issues confronting African and African American communities throughout the world as a student in our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.The interdisciplinary program centers on understanding the struggles of Africans and African descendants throughout the Diaspora for greater human rights and a better quality of life. You’ll learn about the critical movements for change in African and African American history, as well as the contributions of outstanding political leaders, intellectuals and artists.Where an African and African American Studies Degree Will Take YouThe program primes you for an array of career paths. Whether your interests lie in politics, education, social work, law, history, or other fields, your degree will give you the necessary tools to become an active, knowledgeable community member who stands ready to make significant contributions in your chosen field. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Postsecondary Teachers Historians Sociologists Social Workers Health Education Specialists Postsecondary Teachers $83,980 Median SalaryPostsecondary Teachers (PhD usually required) Overall employment of postsecondary teachers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 114,000 openings for postsecondary teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Historians $74,050 Median SalaryHistorians (master's usually required) Employment of historians is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 300 openings for historians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sociologists $101,690 Median SalarySociologists (PhD usually required) Employment of sociologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 300 openings for sociologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health Education Specialists $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialists Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study You'll study the cultural and intellectual contributions of major African and African American scholars and observe the critical movements for change throughout history. Taking a wider view, you'll also grasp the struggles and successes of Africans throughout the Diaspora, and gain knowledge on human rights issues and ways to improve quality of life. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we believe in learning by doing. You’ll develop research and writing skills through independent research projects under the guidance of faculty members. These projects often relate to critical social issues, offering you experiential learning opportunities that build both expertise and empathy.More hands-on experiences are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more.Students completing the African and African American Studies degree will acquire knowledge concerning the following:The continuities of beliefs, cultural principles and structures, customs and practices of everyday life that link continental African cultures and African diasporan cultures.The major developments of African American history from the American colonial period to the present; the canon texts and central thinkers in African and African American intellectual history, as well as the relation of this historical legacy to the emergence of the discipline of African and African American Studies.The cultural production and achievements of Africans and African Americans in the visual and performing arts and literature.The critical role played by African and African American labor in the U.S. and European economies, from the slave trade to the contemporary global economy.The significant role of the family, multiple religious and spiritual practices, and the Black Church, in sustaining African American communities.The social, political and economic difficulties and prejudices faced by other marginalized sectors of U.S. society.The value of achieving an international and global consciousness to function effectively in the 21st Century.In addition, AAAS majors will be able to demonstrate:Analysis of the progress, setbacks, important movements and the contributions of major leaders in African American and diasporan historical development.Ability to draw connections between contemporary African American social problems (e.g. the wide­ scale poverty characteristic of African American urban communities), their historic roots, and relevant hegemonic policies and practices.Competence in research methods, oral presentation and expository writing. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 15 credits of upper-level courses in African and African American Studies (AAAS). An introductory course is required; you select the rest.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join other UM-Dearborn students in the Black Student Union, the African Student Union, the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, or more than 130 other student clubs and organizations on campus; help your friends register to vote; volunteer for a variety of community outreach activities; and much more. Related Programs Urban and Regional Studies, BA Political Science, BA Community Change, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit