Game Design, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Game Design, Graduate Certificate CIS Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Pursue a Career in Designing Computer GamesIf you have an undergraduate degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering, the graduate certificate in Game Design from UM-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to pursue a career creating computer games. You’ll learn some theory, but the program’s focus is on hands-on development of computer games.The skills you’ll learn have lots of applications outside computer games. They’re useful in fields like software development, artificial intelligence, multimedia design, and more.You can complete the four-course, 12-credit graduate certificate online, in person, or a combination of both.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study In the program’s two core courses, you’ll learn about the technology, science, and art of computer games. These intense courses cover a host of topics: programming languages, operating systems, simulation engines, multimedia design systems, artificial intelligence, software engineering, game aesthetics, computer game development tools, multiplayer game programming, and game content development, among others.You round out the certificate by choosing two courses from seven options:Graphics and Visual ComputingWireless Technologies and Pervasive ComputingInformation Visualization with Parallel ComputingSoftware EngineeringSoftware User Interface Design and AnalysisArtificial IntelligenceMultimedia Design Tools I Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our courses prioritize hands-on experience, giving you the chance to work directly on developing computer games and game development tools such as game engines. You’ll finish the certificate with a solid foundation in the practical implementation of game design along with comprehensive theoretical knowledge. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.There are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Web Developers and Digital Designers Special Effects Artists and Animators Graphic Designers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Art Directors Web Developers and Digital Designers $95,380 Median SalaryWeb Developers and Digital Designers Overall employment of web developers and digital designers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for web developers and digital designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Special Effects Artists and Animators $99,800 Median SalarySpecial Effects Artists and Animators Employment of special effects artists and animators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 5,000 openings for special effects artists and animators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Graphic Designers $61,300 Median SalaryGraphic Designers Employment of graphic designers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 20,000 openings for graphic designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Art Directors $111,040 Median SalaryArt Directors Employment of art directors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 12,300 openings for art directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Artificial Intelligence, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Software Engineering, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit