Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Control Systems, Graduate Certificate ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn How to Design Control Systems for VehiclesControl systems are the heart of any vehicle system, whether they’re climate controls, cruise controls, engine controls, pollution controls, or others. Designing control systems for practical applications requires a thorough understanding of physical models of the process, mathematical modeling techniques, transient behavior of systems, and dynamic characteristics of a physical system. You’ll gain that understanding in the control systems graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.You can take all courses for the 12-credit certificate in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule them in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study Your courses will provide in-depth learning about a wide variety of topics. Some of them include mathematical techniques of system analysis, system modeling, continuous and discrete time control techniques, digital control, fuzzy logic control, neural network controllers, design strategies for multivariable processes, and nonlinear control. We believe practical application and understanding are key, so expect to be involved in group design projects, case studies, and process simulations. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.There are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Electrical and Electronics Engineers Mechanical Engineers Aerospace Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Electrical Engineering, MSE Computer Engineering, MSE Robotics Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit