Breadcrumb Home Office of The Provost Initiatives and Projects In this section In this section Office of the Provost Toggle Submenu About Us Communications Toggle Submenu SUBJECT: April 2026 Updates from the Office of the Provost Initiatives and Projects Awards Affiliation Agreements Initiatives and Projects Four-Credit Transition Initiative The goal of the Four-Credit Transition Initiative is to move faculty from teaching three 3-credit courses a semester to two 4-credit courses, thus ultimately freeing up faculty time to focus on research, course development, implementing innovations in teaching or developing new programs. KCP Visiting Professors Program The Martin Luther King, Jr. • César Chávez • Rosa Parks Visiting Professors (VP) program was created by the Michigan State Legislature in 1986 as part of the larger King-Chavez-Parks Initiative, designed to stem the downward spiral of college graduation rates for students underrepresented in postsecondary education. The purpose of the VP program is to increase the number of instructors in the classroom to provide role models for academically or economically disadvantaged students. Open Education Campus Committee The charge of the Open Education Committee (OEC) is to explore, learn about, and support all things Open in the disciplines and fields in higher education. This includes Open Educational Resources (OERs) as well as Open Pedagogies and Open Practices. Practice-Based Learning (PBL) Across Campus PBL encompasses curricular and co-curricular experiences that require students to apply, analyze, evaluate, or create knowledge often in collaboration with others and across disciplinary boundaries. The aim of PBL is to promote a deeper understanding of core concepts through their application, and to provide students with the opportunity to assess and learn from natural consequences, mistakes, and successes. PBL coursework is built upon student centered projects often associated with complex, authentic problems. Provost Fellows The Provost Fellows program of the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides faculty members with an opportunity to experience both the challenges and rewards of administration in higher education. Open The Provost Fellows program of the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides faculty members with an opportunity to experience both the challenges and rewards of administration in higher education. configuration options. The program furthermore provides the Office of the Provost with ongoing faculty involvement, advice, and counsel. The Provost’s Faculty & Staff Book Showcase The Office of the Provost is excited to announce the launch of The Provost’s Faculty & Staff Book Showcase, a celebration and recognition of the achievements of our faculty and staff who publish professional books. The Showcase will feature authors from a range of disciplines, celebrating their advancements in knowledge, research, and creative activity. Office of the Provost 2150 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5030(link is a phone number)