Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Middle East Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Middle East Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty College-Wide Programs College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Immerse Yourself in the Cultures of the Middle East The bachelor’s degree in Middle East studies combines a comprehensive exploration of one of the world’s most fascinating and influential regions with three years of foreign language study, typically in Arabic. The program can accept transfer credits in other Middle East languages with certain conditions.When you graduate, you’ll have advanced foreign language skills and a multi-disciplinary understanding of Middle Eastern societies and cultures. The combination will prepare you for a wide variety of career opportunities or for graduate studies.Where a Middle East Studies Degree Will Take YouA Middle East studies degree opens doors to an array of career opportunities where language, social, and cultural knowledge are essential: international diplomacy, social services, academia, journalism, business, law, and more. The degree also provides an excellent foundation for graduate studies in the modern Middle East. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Required pre-major courses provide an introduction to Middle East studies and four semesters of studies in Arabic language and culture. The major itself offers great flexibility to create an educational pathway that matches your personal interests and career goals. The 30-credit major requires only one course. You choose the rest from dozens of courses divided into three areas: history, language and literature, and social and cultural studies. They cover subjects like Islamic movements, the modern Middle East, Iran, poetry of Arab women, business language, Arabic translation, contemporary Arabic literature, the Quran, public history in Arab Detroit, the history of Islam in the U.S., Arab Americans since 1890, Middle East economies, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, among many others. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain The ability to formulate viable research projects in Middle East Studies.The ability to contextualize that research within the scholarly literature of Middle East Studies.The ability to interpret the history and culture of specific locales in the Middle East within regional, transnational and global contexts.The proficiency in one Middle Eastern language (typically Arabic) as demonstrated via an assessment OR the completion of three years of university level foreign language study with a B average.Our internship, research, and study abroad programs offer fabulous immersive experiences. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Arabic Language and Culture Club, participate in events at the UM-Dearborn Center for Arab American Studies and the Armenian Research Center, teach in a local community center to apply what you’ve learned and give back, check out any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs Arabic Studies, BA International Studies, BA Arab American Studies, Certificate Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit