Elementary Education, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Elementary Education, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Teacher Certification Programs Office of Student Success College of Education, Health, and Human Services Get the Classroom Experience You NeedWhen you step into your own elementary classroom for the first time, you’ll be ready. That’s because our Bachelor of Arts in elementary education program at UM-Dearborn includes extensive experience in elementary classrooms, reflecting our belief that teaching is a craft perfected with practice.You’ll have early field work in elementary schools, two semesters of part-time teaching during apprenticeships, and a full semester of student teaching. By the time you graduate, you’ll have taught for hundreds of hours, giving you the experience you need to succeed in your own classroom.Where An Elementary Education Degree Will Take YouYour degree will prepare you to teach at the elementary school level. From there, you can get more education to teach at other grade levels. Your degree also helps prepare you to move beyond the classroom into roles such as instructional coordinator, counselor, or principal, among others. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Elementary School Teacher Preschool and Childcare Center Director Special Education Teacher Elementary School Teacher $62,310 Median SalaryElementary School Teacher Overall employment of kindergarten and elementary school teachers is projected to decline 2 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 103,800 openings for kindergarten and elementary school teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Preschool and Childcare Center Director $56,270 Median SalaryPreschool and Childcare Center Director Employment of preschool and childcare center directors is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 5,500 openings for preschool and childcare center directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Special Education Teacher $64,270 Median SalarySpecial Education Teacher Overall employment of special education teachers is projected to decline 1 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 37,800 openings for special education teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Before you step in front of students, you’ll learn:education theories and research-based teaching methodshow to integrate educational technology into your classroomthe content knowledge needed to teach all subjects – language arts, science, math, and social studies – to children in elementary gradeshow to apply what you learn to the day-to-day challenges of shaping and nurturing young studentsYour courses will be customized based on the two required concentrations you choose. UM-Dearborn offers four concentrations to choose from for elementary education. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You’ll have early field work in the elementary classroom, with two full academic terms doing apprenticeship semesters. You will also spend one full term exclusively in professional work completing your student teaching, giving you the experience you need to be successful upon graduation. Earn Your Teacher Certification During or following student teaching, you’ll take the Michigan Test for Teacher Certification for each certification you’re seeking. If you successfully complete your classes and pass the state test(s), the College of Education, Health, and Human Services will recommend you for certification to the Michigan Department of Education. The department will award your Michigan Elementary Standard Teaching Certificate.The Michigan Department of Education has approved our teacher education programs. In addition, the College of Education, Health, and Human Services is accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation. Concentration Areas Students in the Elementary Education major are required to select a minimum of 2 concentrations from the options below.At least one of the two concentrations must be a grade band (PK-3 or 3-6).Pre-Kindergarten to 3rd Grade (Grade Band)This concentration prepares students to teach in a self-contained classroom teaching all subjects in Pre-K to 3rd grade. Required courses have a special focus on early literacy, relationship development, and strategies for teaching children in Pre-K to 3rd grade.Possible concentration combinations include: 3rd to 6th Grade OR English as a Second Language.3rd to 6th Grade (Grade Band)This concentration prepares students to teach in a self-contained classroom teaching all subjects in 3rd-6th grade. Required courses have a special focus on classroom management strategies, intercultural education, and content relevant to children in upper elementary grades.Possible concentration combinations include: Pre-K to 3rd Grade OR English as a Second Language.English as a Second Language (Endorsement)This concentration prepares students to provide additional support to children who have a native language other than English. Required courses focus on literacy assessment for English language learners, understanding of linguistics, and English grammar. Possible concentration combinations include: Pre-K to 3rd Grade OR 3rd to 6th Grade.Birth to KindergartenThis concentration prepares students to teach young children language arts, social studies, mathematics, and integrated science. Required courses focus on psychology of child development, partnerships with families of children with disabilities, child development from birth to age three, strategies for teaching young children, and technology in the classroom, among others.Possible concentration combinations include: Pre-K to 3rd Grade Digital Equity and Transformation in Learning The College of Education, Health, and Human Services is committed to expanding and scaling digital equity and transformation in learning. As a sign of support for this commitment we have signed the EPP Digital Equity and Transformation Pledge created by ISTE, AAQEP and CAEP and we will continue to work to ensure that our faculty have the tools and knowledge necessary to prepare future teachers to effectively integrate technology in their teaching. Licensure Statement The pathways in our Educator Preparation Program were designed to satisfy educational prerequisites to initial and advanced licensure in only the state of Michigan. We encourage students to contact the appropriate licensing agency in the state in which they are located or, if different, the state in which they intend to seek licensure for more information. While the Educator Preparation Program pathways may or may not fully satisfy educational prerequisites to licensure in other states, academic advisors work with students on an individual basis and are available to discuss teaching certifications and reciprocity opportunities in other states. In addition, the Education Commission of the States website provides solid information as to the expectations each state and the District of Columbia has for obtaining licensure beyond Michigan licensure. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Student Teaching through UM-Dearborn Become an elementary teacher in the state of Michigan with engaging coursework and student teaching placements. How to Get Involved UM-Dearborn's vibrant campus life offers numerous student-run organizations, clubs, and activities. Engage with fellow future educators, join student-led educational forums, or participate in community tutoring programs. Getting involved will enrich your university life and enhance your teaching skills as you learn with your peers. Programs Offered Beyond BA Early Childhood Education, MA Education, MA Teaching, MA Related Programs Birth to Kindergarten Education, BA Secondary Education, BA Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit