Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, Dual BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, Dual BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Double Your Prospects With Two DegreesOur dual BSE program offers a unique opportunity to gain proficiency in both electrical and computer engineering, broadening your skill set and enhancing your employment prospects. You earn two degrees at the same time with 141 credits–just 16 more than you need for a single degree.You can earn the additional credits by taking an extra course each semester or slightly extending your program. Either way, pursuing dual degrees intensifies your learning experience and qualifies you for a wider range of engineering positions.Where Dual Engineering Degrees Will Take YouThe dual degrees make you qualified for a variety of roles that require either a computer engineering background or specialization in electrical engineering. Computers and other electronic devices have revolutionized virtually every aspect of our world, leading to great demand for engineers who can design and build ever more powerful devices and systems. The degrees also give you a great background for graduate study, such as in our Master of Science in engineering in electrical engineering program or our Master of Science in engineering in computer engineering program at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Engineers Computer Hardware Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Network and Computer Systems Administrators Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Hardware Engineers $155,020 Median SalaryComputer Hardware Engineers Employment of computer hardware engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,700 openings for computer hardware engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The cross-disciplinary coursework fosters a comprehensive understanding of both engineering fields, equipping you with a wide array of skills and the ability to adapt to the dynamic world of engineering. Your prerequisite courses will cover topics like technical writing for engineers, calculus, engineering probability and statistics, discrete math, physics, digital systems, and circuits, among others.The core curriculum, which includes 18 courses, explores subjects such as electronic circuits, microprocessors and embedded systems, advanced software technology in computer engineering, computer architecture, electronic materials and devices, automatic control systems, operating systems, system design and microcontrollers, electrical engineering design, and computer engineering design.You also get to choose two electives from a dozen options, including courses in power electronics, electronic systems design, mobile devices, renewable electric power systems, VLSI design, and robot vision.The Bachelor of Science in engineering in computer engineering program and the Bachelor of Science in engineering in electrical engineering program are both accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABT. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You’ll learn by doing throughout your program, using the latest technology and tools. We also encourage you to undertake directed research projects supervised by faculty advisors, especially if you’re interested in pursuing graduate studies or want a research and development career.More real-world opportunities are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BS Electrical Engineering, MSE Computer Engineering, MSE Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Related Programs Electrical Engineering, BSE Computer Engineering, BSE Robotics Engineering, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit