Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE IMSE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5361(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Lead the Way With Advanced Production SystemsRedesigned for Fall 2025 and rebranded as Manufacturing Analytics Engineering (MAE), the master’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn equips our graduates with the skills necessary to thrive in the modern manufacturing landscape. It’s designed to educate manufacturing professionals who will be designing, building, and managing the innovative production systems needed to compete in today’s world.As part of our program enhancements, we are introducing three optional concentration areas crafted to align with the evolving demands and innovations in the manufacturing industry:Digital and Smart ManufacturingManufacturing Quality and AnalyticsManufacturing Enterprise ManagementYou can take classes for the 30-credit degree in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.*We are awaiting US-government approval to issue I-20s for this program. Once approved, we can admit international students requiring F-1 visas. However, we do not yet have a timeline for this approval.Where an MSE in Manufacturing Analytics Engineering Will Take YouWith a master’s degree in Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, you’ll possess a unique set of skills valued across a spectrum of industries: automotive, aerospace, semiconductors, medical devices, and defense, among others. Our graduates land fulfilling careers as smart manufacturing specialist, quality and reliability specialist, and supply chain analysts, and many other positions. With the industrial sector's continual growth, you’ll have a vast range of opportunities worldwide. Program Details What You’ll Study The manufacturing industry is undergoing transformative changes due to the rapid advancement of digital tools, artificial intelligence (AI), and data analytics. Graduates of this program will be well-positioned to lead in the adoption of digital and smart manufacturing technologies through innovative data-driven approaches. The new MSE-MAE program will have 3 concentration areas, namely, Digital and Smart Manufacturing, Manufacturing and Quality Analytics, and Manufacturing Enterprise Management. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain The college features well-equipped laboratory facilities in various areas, including:Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing (CAD/CAM)Ergonomics and Human PerformanceMaterials Testing and CharacterizationMetrology, Metal, Ceramics, and Polymer Additive ManufacturingRobotics, and Design and Simulation Students will also gain experiences with the latest software tools, including those for data visualization and analysis, AI programming, and the design and operation of robotic cells in virtual environments. More opportunities for hands-on experiences is available in our research programs. Check out the page for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admission Requirements Bachelor of Science in engineering or a physical scienceGPA of 3.0 or higherGRE not requiredLetters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Letters of recommendation for applications working for more than a year should address any significant engineering accomplishments Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Health and Safety Engineers Operations Research Analysts Logisticians Industrial Production Managers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health and Safety Engineers $109,660 Median SalaryHealth and Safety Engineers Employment of health and safety engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for health and safety engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Logisticians $80,880 Median SalaryLogisticians Employment of logisticians is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 26,400 openings for logisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MS Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Related Programs Engineering Management, MS Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit