Community-Based Leadership and Development, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Community-Based Leadership and Development, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Work With Community OrganizationsGet hands-on opportunities to develop skills as a community change agent who can effectively engage and empower community members when working toward social justice in our 15-credit certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You can add the certificate to any major or take it as a stand-alone program.The certificate focuses on courses with service-learning projects or collaborative research with community organizations, giving you practical experience in local efforts, exposure to different types of community organizations, and opportunities to apply concepts and theories from your courses. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Social and Community Service Managers Urban and Regional Planners Writers and Authors Public Relations and Fundraising Managers Social and Community Service Managers $78,240 Media SalarySocial and Community Service Managers Employment of social and community service managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,600 openings for social and community service managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Urban and Regional Planners $83,720 Media SalaryUrban and Regional Planners Employment of urban and regional planners is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,400 openings for urban and regional planners are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Media SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations and Fundraising Managers $132,870 Media SalaryPublic Relations and Fundraising Managers Overall employment of public relations and fundraising managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 10,200 openings for public relations and fundraising managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You design your interdisciplinary certificate by choosing from groups of courses. You can choose electives from a variety of subfields, including health and the environment, community development, Michigan politics, entrepreneurship, and gender and sexuality. The courses cover topics such as social work, community organizing for health, Detroit history and culture, project management and leadership skills, environmental health, Michigan government, urban politics, public history in Arab Detroit, criminal justice, and urban sociology, among others.Knowledge of approaches to community change in historical and cultural contextsDemonstrate knowledge of the history of community development, community organizing, and social movements, with a particular focus on communities of color, indigenous communities, and other marginalized communities.Describe and assess strengths and weaknesses of various approaches to community organizing, community development, advocacy, and leadership.Critical research and analytical skillsResearch and critically analyze social, political, and economic issues, and public policies, with an emphasis on those that relate to indigenous communities, communities of color, and other marginalized communities.Conduct participatory or collaborative research that values community history, culture and self-defined interests.Explain the processes and goals of community-based participation in the development of programs and policies that contribute to the social, economic, political, and environmental improvement of communities and cities.Applied skills in collaborative leadership and inclusive problem-solvingAnalyze power dynamics and develop action plans related to community organizing, development, advocacy, media, and personal leadership.Develop skills in communication, project management, leadership development, coalition-building, and collective action. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Community Change, Minor/Concentration Urban and Regional Studies, BA Political Science, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit