Applied Statistics, BA/BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Applied Statistics, BA/BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Mathematics and Statistics Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Help Build a Better World Through DataData drives decisions in today’s world, but data is useless unless it’s carefully collected, managed, analyzed, and interpreted. That’s where applied statistics comes in–a rapidly growing field you can prepare for with a bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.Applied statistics is the science of learning from data. Our program will equip you with a strong set of skills to analyze and utilize data. Whether your interest lies in genetics, health care, finance, public policy, or another area, it will empower you to pursue your passion, understand the fundamentals of statistical modeling, and become skilled in data analysis and empirical research.Where a Degree in Applied Statistics Will Take YouWith the ability to understand and analyze data and communicate the results, you'll be an asset in any field. You’ll be prepared to apply your statistical expertise across a wide range of fields, including business, technology, environmental science, health care, social sciences, and government, offering diverse career opportunities. Our program also will prepare you to pursue an advanced degree in statistics and quantitative fields. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mathematicians and Statisticians Data Scientists Actuaries Operations Research Analysts Financial Analysts Mathematicians and Statisticians $104,350 Median SalaryMathematicians and Statisticians (master’s usually required) Overall employment of mathematicians and statisticians is projected to grow 8 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,200 openings for mathematicians and statisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Actuaries $125,770 Median SalaryActuaries Employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,400 openings for actuaries are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You’ll learn about the fundamentals of probability theory, statistical and inferential reasoning, statistical computing, and statistical modeling. Other courses will help you become skilled in describing, interpreting, and analyzing data using graphics and other tools and in effectively communicating statistics. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Understand the fundamentals of probability theoryUnderstand statistical and inferential reasoningBecome proficient at statistical computingUnderstand the fundamentals of statistical modeling and understand its limitationsBecome skilled in the description, interpretation and exploratory analysis of data by graphical and other meansLearn how to effectively communicate statisticsWe’ve inserted opportunities for practice-based learning throughout the curriculum, letting you apply the knowledge you’ve gained to real-world scenarios. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Visit the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration in Applied Statistics A minor or integrative studies concentration consists of four upper-level (numbered 300 or above) courses in applied statistics (STAT). Students majoring in mathematics, the natural sciences, or the social sciences may find the minor to be an especially valuable supplement to their major.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can work as a tutor in the Math Learning Center, join the Mathematics Club, attend Mathematics Colloquia sponsored by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, participate in department events like the annual Pi day 3.14 and Women in Math celebrations, explore general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much, much more. Programs Offered Beyond BA/BS Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Business Analytics, MS Data Science, MS Related Programs Data Science, BS Actuarial Mathematics, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit