Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Boost Your Skills Entirely OnlineThis program is a fully online program.Embark on an in-depth exploration of instructional design principles, learning technology tools, and strategies to create effective educational experiences for diverse audiences in our fully online Master’s Degree in instructional design and learning technologies program.We’ve designed it for people who work in K-12 schools, colleges and universities, private industry, corporate training, and other instructional settings who want to increase their effectiveness in the field of instructional design and learning technologies.Where a Degree in Instructional Design Will Take YouThis program is a fully online program.Professionals in this rapidly evolving field go by a variety of titles: instructional designer, educational technologist, and eLearning developer are just a few examples. But whatever title job postings use, you’ll find opportunities in private industry, business, K-12 educational organizations, colleges and universities, corporate training firms, health care institutions, and many other settings. You may become the go-to source for creating training materials, guide teams in adapting to new and emerging technologies, help your workplace get the most out of existing systems–and your responsibilities may constantly change to meet your employer’s needs. Program Details What You’ll Study Instructional design and learning technology professionals must have a diverse set of skills to excel. Your curriculum may include courses in instructional design, curriculum development, technological tools, content development, user experience design, data analysis, legal and ethical considerations, and cultural sensitivity, among many other subjects. Explore Program Requirements Out Of State Tuition Reduction Because the master’s program is entirely online, students who aren’t Michigan residents qualify for the non-resident online tuition rate. This rate is about 30 percent lower than the normal non-resident rate, saving you nearly $1,500 per three-credit course or almost $15,000 overall Admission Requirements A GRE is not required. You must submit the following with your application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institution3.0 GPA or higher on submitted transcriptsTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purpose Fully Online This program is only offered in a fully online format and meets the same standard of quality and rigor as our on-campus programs. In addition, diplomas and transcripts for online programs are identical to those for on-campus programs. For the most part, classes are offered asynchronously and have regularly set deadlines for assignments, tests, exams, discussions, and other course requirements. Students engage in online classes through participation in discussions, assignments, projects, and modules that can contain videos, presentations, podcasts and other multimedia elements. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Training and Development Manager Instructional Coordinator Training and Development Specialist Training and Development Manager $127,090 Median SalaryTraining and Development Manager Employment of training and development managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,800 openings for training and development managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Instructional Coordinator $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinator (master’s usually required) Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Training and Development Specialist $65,850 Median SalaryTraining and Development Specialist Employment of training and development specialists is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 43,900 openings for training and development specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Software Engineering, MS Computer Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit