Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Human Resource Management, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Human Resource Management, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Learn How to Manage EmployeesProperly managing employees is a key element in the success of any organization, whether it’s a business, government agency, nonprofit group, or academic institution. In our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll learn about human resources components such as staffing, employee training and development, performance evaluation, compensation, and labor relations.Our program isn’t just for students who aspire to a career in human resources. The courses teach you how to select, develop, motivate, retain, evaluate, and direct employees – skills needed by managers at all levels and in all fields.Where a Human Resource Management Major Will Take YouA degree in human resource management will prepare you for roles such as HR manager, recruitment officer, compensation analyst, training and development specialist, and HR consultant. Your degree also provides a solid foundation for graduate studies, such as in our MBA program at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Human Resources Specialists Compensation, Benefits, and Job Analysis Specialists Labor Relations Specialists Training and Development Managers Human Resources Managers Human Resources Specialists $72,910 Median SalaryHuman Resources Specialists Employment of human resources specialists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 81,800 openings for human resources specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Compensation, Benefits, and Job Analysis Specialists $77,020 Median SalaryCompensation, Benefits, and Job Analysis Specialists Employment of compensation, benefits, and job analysis specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for compensation, benefits, and job analysis specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Labor Relations Specialists $93,500 Median SalaryLabor Relations Specialists Employment of labor relations specialists is projected to show little or no change from 2024 to 2034.Despite limited employment growth, about 5,100 openings for labor relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Training and Development Managers $127,090 Median SalaryTraining and Development Managers Employment of training and development managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,800 openings for training and development managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your program will include 29 credits in BBA prerequisites and 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, giving you a broad background in general business topics such as accounting, business writing, economics, business statistics, project management and leadership, corporate responsibility, strategic management, corporate finance, business law, and marketing, among other subjects.Your 21-credit major consists of five required courses and two electives you choose from more than a dozen options. The required courses cover subjects such as human resource policy and administration, talent sourcing and acquisition, and compensation and performance management. The electives explore topics like labor in the American economy, management skills development, negotiation and conflict management, and diversity in the workplace. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain As a human resources management major, you’ll gain hands-on experiences through case studies and projects in your courses. You also can get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, study abroad in Italy or Taiwan, assist with real-world research at our iLabs research institute, help your fellow students become more effective business communicators as a consultant at the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The 15-credit minor consists of two required courses and three electives you choose from eight options. Explore Minor Requirements How to Get Involved You’ll have all kinds of opportunities to learn, network, and make friends outside the classroom at UM-Dearborn. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include the Society for Human Resource Management, Alpha Kappa Psi, American Marketing Association, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Programs Offered Beyond BBA Business Administration, MBA Related Programs General Business, BBA Marketing, BBA Information Systems Management, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit