Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science From Energy Storage to SustainabilityExplore electrical power system planning and operation in this graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Some of the topics covered include generation planning, transmission planning, and distribution planning. This is an excellent opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a career shift.You can take all courses for the nine-credit certificate in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule them in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work. You can apply credits earned for the certificate toward graduate degrees offered by UM-Dearborn’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.Pathway to a Master's DegreePlan ahead by selecting certificate courses that overlap with graduate courses required for a related master's program. Doing so allows you to earn your certificate while simultaneously making progress toward your master's degree. Meet with an advisor to learn more! Program Details What You’ll Study The nine-credit certificate consists of three courses:Introduction to Power Management and ReliabilityEnergy Storage SystemsSustainable Energy SystemsThese courses dive into a wide range of topics: energy storage for electric vehicles, different types of batteries, sources of energy, the impact on the climate of various energy sources, optimal power flow, Smart Grid technology, economic dispatch, and the impact of renewable energy on power and management systems, among many others. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Admission Requirements An undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering with a cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or higher is required.There are no required prerequisites or standardized test scores for admission. View Certificate Admissions Requirements Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Electrical and Electronics Engineers Civil Engineers Urban and Regional Planners Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Civil Engineers $99,590 Median SalaryCivil Engineers Employment of civil engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,600 openings for civil engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Urban and Regional Planners $83,720 Median SalaryUrban and Regional Planners (master's usually required) Employment of urban and regional planners is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,400 openings for urban and regional planners are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Master's Programs Electrical Engineering, MSE Computer Engineering, MSE Robotics Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit