Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Accounting, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Accounting, MS College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Accounting 4+1 Dual Degree Programs CPA Exam Preparation Redesigned for Fall 2025Lead the Future of Accounting with Data-Driven ExpertiseAs the accounting profession evolves with the increasing reliance on data-driven decision-making, new skills are essential. The Master of Science in Accounting at the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you to meet these demands. The program combines a strong foundation in accounting principles with a focus on integrating data analytics into key accounting processes. You’ll learn to apply data tools in areas like auditing and taxation, equipping you with the expertise to thrive in the rapidly changing landscape of modern accounting.To support your success on the CPA exams--including the new data analytics components--the College of Business partners with UWorld to offer CPA exam preparation courses at up to 50% off the standard price.Designed for both full-time and part-time students, our flexible program offers evening classes on campus and several online course options, allowing you to earn your degree on your schedule.Want to jump start your degree? If you’re a current UM-Dearborn undergraduate student and you’ve been admitted to the master’s program, you can take up to six graduate credits during your final undergraduate semester.Where a Master's in Accounting Will Take YouYou’ll be well-positioned to meet the needs of a data-driven world as you prepare you for a career in corporate accounting, controllership, or public accounting. Our program will also help you work toward your CPA credential, including the data analytics components now integral to the CPA exams. As our student, you can complete CPA exam preparation courses through UWorld at a significant discount. Program Details What You'll Study The 30-credit program consists of seven required courses and three electives. It includes core coursework in accounting principles, auditing, financial reporting, and taxation, with integrated analytics through a business analytics course and advanced applications in audit and tax. Elective options allow you to further specialize in areas such as AI fundamentals, Python programming, and information technology auditing. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Through coursework and experiential learning opportunities, you’ll develop:Expertise in analyzing and interpreting financial statements.Proficiency in applying business analytics to accounting practices, including data visualization and predictive modeling.Advanced knowledge in areas like auditing, taxation, and cost management.The ability to leverage technology, such as Python programming and AI fundamentals, to enhance decision-making processes.Strong skills in evaluating organizational controls, risk, and compliance. Discounts on CPA Exam Preparation To enhance your likelihood of success on the CPA exams, the College of Business partners with UWorld to provide access to online CPA preparation courses at a significant discount -- up to 50% off the prices offered to others.Students must meet specific accounting and general business course requirements in order to qualify for the CPA examination in Michigan. See the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy for the official policies. Transfer Credit and Course Exemptions Previous undergraduate or graduate coursework deemed substantially similar to the MSA core courses may qualify to exempt students from those courses. Exempted courses must be replaced with elective courses within the degree program; however, taking a course exemption is optional, and the total required credit-hours in the program remains the same.Students who have completed 6 MSA elective courses (18 credits) may elect up to 3 College of Business graduate courses (9 credits) to replace other exempted or elective MSA courses. In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for previous equivalent graduate coursework can be applied to the degree if those credits have not been counted toward a degree.Exemptions and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Domestic applicants:Fall term: August 1Winter term: December 1Summer term: April 1 (part-time students only)International applicants:Fall term: May 1Winter term: September 1(International not eligible for summer admission)Admission is rolling. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term, but applications and materials will be accepted until the posted "Last Day to Submit". View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Accountants and Auditors Budget Analysts Personal Financial Advisors Financial Analysts Financial Managers Accountants and Auditors $81,680 Median SalaryAccountants and Auditors Employment of accountants and auditors is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 124,200 openings for accountants and auditors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Budget Analysts $87,930 Median SalaryBudget Analysts Employment of budget analysts is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 3,100 openings for budget analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Personal Financial Advisors $102,140 Median SalaryPersonal Financial Advisors Employment of personal financial advisors is projected to grow 10 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 24,100 openings for personal financial advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Managers $161,700 Median SalaryFinancial Managers Employment of financial managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,600 openings for financial managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Business Administration, MBA Finance, MS Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Connect with Us