Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore the World of Volatile OilsAromatic and medicinal plants are critical components of medications, food, and perfumes. It’s estimated that half of the world’s drugs are based on compounds isolated from plants, often first identified by ancient folklore. Manufacturing, testing for purity and safety, and research on medicinal and aromatic plants is a growing field–one where you can excel with our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.The certificate is ideal for biochemistry majors, who only need two to three additional courses to add it to their major. It’s also an excellent fit for other science and bioengineering students who are interested in alternative medical therapies, laboratory research skills in plant extract isolation, or entrepreneurship opportunities. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Agricultural and Food Scientists Biochemists and Biophysicists Environmental Scientists and Specialists Chemists and Materials Scientists Agricultural and Food Science Technicians Agricultural and Food Scientists $78,770 Median SalaryAgricultural and Food Scientists Overall employment of agricultural and food scientists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,100 openings for agricultural and food scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists (Ph.D. usually required) Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Scientists and Specialists $80,060 Median SalaryEnvironmental Scientists and Specialists Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for environmental scientists and specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemists and Materials Scientists $86,620 Median SalaryChemists and Materials Scientists Overall employment of chemists and materials scientists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 7,000 openings for chemists and materials scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Agricultural and Food Science Technicians $48,480 Median SalaryAgricultural and Food Science Technicians Overall employment of agricultural and food science technicians is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 6,100 openings for agricultural and food science technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Students interested in the certificate must have taken seven foundational courses in biology, biochemistry, and chemistry. Your certificate courses will teach you how to:Use modern techniques to isolate and purify volatile oils from raw plantsUse instruments to characterize volatile oils mixtures using methods that are routinely used in industryInterpret results and draw conclusions on the constituency and purity of volatile oilsUse speciality literature to gain knowledge about volatile oils Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Biochemistry, BS Chemistry, BS Biological Sciences, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit