Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Information Systems, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Information Systems, MS College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Dual Degree Programs Building on Information Systems with an Enhanced MS in Business AnalyticsThe MS in Information Systems program is being incorporated into an enhanced MS in Business Analytics program with an Intelligent Systems approach. New applicants are now encouraged to apply to the MS in Business Analytics program, which builds on the strengths of the Information Systems curriculum while expanding the focus on analytics and data-driven decision making.This enhanced STEM-designated program reflects how modern organizations combine analytics, artificial intelligence, and enterprise information systems to turn data into better business decisions. These changes prepare students to analyze data while also understanding and managing the systems that collect, store, and support it. The program can be completed full-time or part-time, with evening and some online courses designed for working professionals.Where the New Program Will Take YouGraduates are prepared for roles such as business intelligence analyst, data analyst, analytics consultant, operations analyst, and business systems analyst. With skills in analytics, programming, statistical modeling, and information systems, they help organizations turn data into insight and support data-driven decision making across industries such as finance, healthcare, manufacturing, and technology.The STEM designation provides international students with an extended Optional Practical Training (OPT) period, enhancing opportunities for valuable U.S. work experience.Our career support services, global alumni network, and expansive networking opportunities will help you launch and grow your career. Explore the Updated Program Related Programs Business Analytics, MS Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Business Administration, MBA Information Systems and Technology, MS Legacy MSIS Program Details What You’ll Study The 30-credit program consists of nine core courses and one elective. You'll gain a comprehensive understanding of artificial intelligence, business analytics, data management, and cybersecurity. The curriculum emphasizes systems development and the technical foundations that support the IT landscape, ensuring you’re equipped with the knowledge needed to thrive in today’s technology-driven business environment. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You'll develop a wide range of practical skills essential for success in the tech-driven business world. You'll master AI fundamentals, programming in Python, and advanced data management techniques to design, implement, and manage enterprise IT solutions. You’ll also build critical skills in data quality assurance and cybersecurity strategies, ensuring you’re ready to address real-world challenges and drive innovation in today’s digital economy. Transfer Credit and Course Exemptions Previous coursework deemed substantially similar to ISM 525, or an undergraduate degree in Information Systems Management, may qualify to exempt students from ISM 525. Exempt courses must be replaced with other elective courses in the degree program.In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for previous equivalent graduate coursework can be applied to the degree if those credits have not been counted toward a degree.Exemptions and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission.