Philosophy, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Philosophy, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Prepare for a Career–and for LifeUse reason to delve into some of the most profound questions humans can ask as a philosophy major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn: What is the meaning of life? Does God exist? What is truth? Guided by our dedicated faculty, you’ll develop powerful critical thinking and writing skills as you tackle these questions and many others. Our philosophy program not only prepares you for a range of careers, but for life’s challenges and choices.Where a Philosophy Degree Will Take YouPhilosophy graduates are well-rounded individuals, capable of critical thinking, persuasive writing, and reasoned arguments. The skills you develop as a philosophy student are directly transferable to a wid Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Lawyers Arbitrators, Mediators, and Conciliators High School Teachers Social and Community Service Managers Writers and Authors Lawyers $151,160 Median SalaryLawyers (law degree required) Employment of lawyers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,500 openings for lawyers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Arbitrators, Mediators, and Conciliators $67,710 Median SalaryArbitrators, Mediators, and Conciliators Employment of arbitrators, mediators, and conciliators is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 300 openings for arbitrators, mediators, and conciliators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. High School Teachers $64,580 Median SalaryHigh School Teachers Employment of high school teachers is projected to decline 2 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 66,200 openings for high school teachers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social and Community Service Managers $78,240 Median SalarySocial and Community Service Managers Employment of social and community service managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,600 openings for social and community service managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You have two options:Alternative 1 is a traditional major. It requires 24 credits in upper-level philosophy courses and six credits from an approved list of hundreds of cognate courses in one or more disciplines outside philosophy.Alternative II stresses the relationship of philosophy to other areas of study. It requires 18 credits of upper-level philosophy courses and 12 credits from the list of approved cognate courses.With both alternatives, six credits of introductory philosophy courses are required and you choose the rest. You can select from courses about ancient philosophy, Marxism, Islamic philosophy, Darwinism and philosophy, environmental ethics, the ethics of war and peace, the philosophy of mental illness, the philosophy of law, analytic philosophy, symbolic logic, the philosophy of technology, the philosophy of art, theories of reality, feminist philosophy, and medical ethics, among many other subjects. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain One of the cornerstones of our philosophy program is the emphasis on practice-based learning. Our courses are designed to foster active engagement, pushing you to formulate your own ideas and polish the skills necessary to articulate these ideas compellingly and convincingly. You’ll get hands-on experience in writing well-reasoned argumentative essays reflecting your sense of intellectual integrity and commitment to truth.Students will:Develop the ability to think critically and clearly, and to demonstrate this ability through the analysis and writing of well-reasoned argumentative essays.Become familiar with some of the major figures, ideas, and arguments in the Western philosophical tradition.Engage in formulating your own ideas and developing the skills necessary to articulate these ideas.Develop the ability to consider opposing views and to assess the logic inherent in these views.See that philosophical theories underlie political systems, scientific theories, controversies in law, and indeed in theories about every aspect of reality.Develop a sense of intellectual integrity and a commitment to truth, as distinct from what is merely fashionable, popular, or politically convenient.More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in philosophy (PHIL).Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join fellow students in the Philosophy Club, help your friends register to vote, participate in an Alternative Spring Break trip, volunteer for a variety of community outreach activities, check out the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs Sociology, BA Psychology, BA/BS Political Science, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit