Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS IMSE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5361(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Design and Engineering That Focus On the UserLearn how to research, identify, document, and translate user requirements and needs, generate creative ideas, and implement and evaluate products and services in a scientific way with the master’s degree in human-centered design and engineering from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.Our interdisciplinary program is a collaborative effort between the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering in the College of Engineering and Computer Science and the Department of Behavioral Sciences in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters. This unique combination of expertise sets our program apart and provides you with a comprehensive understanding of design and engineering from multiple perspectives.Classes for the 31-credit degree are offered in person, online, or hybrid. We schedule classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where the MS in Human-Centered Design and Engineering Will Take YouIf you’ve spent any time at all online, you know that many websites provide a poor user experience. The same is true of lots of other products and services. There’s a growing realization, though, that ignoring human needs in designing products and services commonly leads to failure. Thus, jobs related to human-centered design and engineering are on the rise.The job titles vary: user experience designer, user interface designer, interaction designer, usability analyst, and product designer, among others. You’ll be ready for all of them with your master’s degree from UM-Dearborn. Program Details What You’ll Study Your required core courses will provide a strong foundation in human-centered design and engineering. You choose three electives from one of two concentrations:The User Experience Design concentration focuses on how to balance user needs with business objectives and technology constraints.The Design and Manufacturing Concentration explores how to design and build human-centered products while operating within material and manufacturing constraints.The remaining 6 credit hours may be selected with the approval of the graduate advisor. The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your coursework will include projects that let you apply what you've learned in the classroom to real-life design problems. The curriculum also includes two capstone projects courses where you’ll work in a team to develop projects and solve design problems.More opportunities for hands-on experiences is available in our research programs. Check out the page for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admission Requirements Undergraduate degree in cognitive science, computer science, art, design, engineering, business, or related areasA GPA of 3.0 (on a scale of 4.0) is expectedLetters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest.Design portfolio (encouraged, not required) Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Materials Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Mechanical Engineers Industrial Engineers Industrial Designers Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Designers $79,450 Median SalaryIndustrial Designers Employment of industrial designers is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 2,500 openings for industrial designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science graduate student Nathan Chun talks about how the HCDE learning experience prepares students for future careers. How to Get Involved You can get experience as a graduate student instructor or research assistant. You also can join the Society of Women Engineers, Alpha Pi Mu, the Institute of Industrial Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Related Programs Program and Project Management, MS Mechanical Engineering, MSE Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit