Biochemistry, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Biochemistry, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Bridge the Biological Sciences and Chemistry in our ASBMB-accredited ProgramExplore the intricate relationships at the intersection of biology and chemistry as a biochemistry major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. With courses in biological sciences, chemistry, mathematics, and physics, you’ll gain a deep understanding of the structural and functional relationships between the chemical constituents of cells and their roles in life processes. You’ll have the opportunity to study environmental toxicology, mechanisms underlying the progression of chronic diseases, the biological uses of medicinal plants, the physical and chemical properties of proteins and nucleic acids, the techniques of preparative and analytical biochemistry, the molecular biology of eukaryotes, the biochemical and molecular basis of drug action, nutrition and metabolism, and many related subjects.Where a Biochemistry Degree Will Take YouOur comprehensive biochemistry degree equips you with market-ready skills and knowledge for careers in industry, medicine, teaching and research. The degree also provides a solid foundation for graduate studies in the sciences and professional preparation programs for physicians, physician assistants, dentists, pharmacists, and veterinarians. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Biochemists and Biophysicists Microbiologists Chemists and Materials Scientists Chemical Technicians Environmental Scientists and Specialists Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists (Ph.D. usually required) Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Microbiologists $87,330 Median SalaryMicrobiologists Employment of microbiologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,700 openings for microbiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemists and Materials Scientists $86,620 Median SalaryChemists and Materials Scientists Overall employment of chemists and materials scientists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 7,000 openings for chemists and materials scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemical Technicians $57,790 Median SalaryChemical Technicians Employment of chemical technicians is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 6,700 openings for chemical technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Scientists and Specialists $80,060 Median SalaryEnvironmental Scientists and Specialists Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for environmental scientists and specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The 120-credit biochemistry degree includes 42 credits of pre-major prerequisites in biochemistry, biology, chemistry, mathematics, and physics. The major itself requires 30-31 credits in biochemistry, chemistry, and statistics. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Our extensive network of laboratories and learning centers ensures you’ll have plenty of opportunities to take what you've learned in the classroom and apply it to real-world scenarios. Our facilities include 10 teaching laboratories, 18 research laboratories, the Science Learning Center, the Environmental Interpretive Center, the 120-acre Environmental Study Area, a greenhouse, and many others.Other hands-on experiences are available working as a part-time consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, working as a laboratory preparation assistant, and assisting faculty with research. We also encourage you to conduct your own research guided by our faculty, which includes experienced researchers and industry professionals.Finally, some great real-world opportunities are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses in biochemistry (BCHM). All of the courses have prerequisites.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage students to get involved both on and off campus. From joining student organizations and participating in undergraduate research projects to volunteering within the community, you'll find numerous opportunities to enrich your academic journey and prepare for your future career.Some of the student organizations that may especially interest you include the Biology Club, Biochemistry Society, Minority Association of Pre-Med Students, Phi Delta Epsilon co-ed pre-med fraternity, Pre-Dental Association, Pre-Optometry Club, Pre-PA Association, Pre-Professional Health Society, Public Health Society, and Restoration Ecology Club. Related Programs Biological Sciences, BS Microbiology, BS Environmental Science, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit