Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CASL), BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CASL), BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business An Exciting Option for CASL StudentsIf you’re pursuing an undergraduate degree from UM-Dearborn’s College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, adding business studies as a secondary major can significantly broaden your career options and enhance your job prospects.A secondary major in business studies seamlessly combines the insights of a liberal arts and sciences education with a solid business foundation. It focuses on fostering both leadership and analytical skills, making it an especially good fit if your goal is a career in management.Where a Business Studies as a Secondary Major Program will Take YouThe comprehensive education you receive between your primary major and the secondary major in business studies opens doors to numerous career paths. Our graduates find roles in business, education, community organizations, and government. Your double major tells potential employers you possess drive and initiative, along with a wide range of knowledge and skills. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Management Analysts Financial Analysts Sales Managers Human Resources Managers Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Management Analysts $101,190 Median SalaryManagement Analysts Employment of management analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 98,100 openings for management analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Sales Managers $138,060 Median SalarySales Managers Employment of sales managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 49,000 openings for sales managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The 30-credit major provides foundational courses in business. Prerequisite courses cover macroeconomics, microeconomics, and college algebra or pre-calculus. Required courses explore subjects like financial accounting, corporate finance, information systems, marketing, and operations management.As part of the major, you select a nine-credit, three-course concentration:General businessCommunicationsEconomicsEntrepreneurshipPsychology Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we prioritize practice-based learning. You'll have opportunities to apply theories in real-life business scenarios, undertake substantial projects and work in teams to solve actual business problems.You also can analyze a vast amount of real-time market data in the Bloomberg Finance Lab, study abroad in Italy or Taiwan, get an internship with help from the Business Career Center, help conduct real-world research at our iLabs research institute, help your fellow students become more effective business communicators as a consultant at the Mitchell Business Communications Lab, and more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved UM-Dearborn offers all kinds of opportunities outside the classroom. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, network with corporate leaders at the Executive Speaker Series, celebrate Women Entrepreneurship Week, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include Alpha Kappa Psi, American Marketing Association, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Society for Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Programs Offered Beyond BA Business Administration, MBA Related Programs Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CEHHS), BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit