LGBTQ Studies, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program LGBTQ Studies, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Deepen Your Knowledge of Sexuality and Gender Locally and GloballyOur interdisciplinary LGBTQ studies certificate at UM-Dearborn helps you understand how cultural, social, spiritual, legal, and political factors influence the lives of LGBTQ individuals, families, and communities. Knowledge of LGBTQ issues and competency in serving populations that are gender and sexually diverse are relevant to fields such as education, law, health care, business, counseling, and social work, among many others. The certificate program consists of a required introductory course and three courses you choose from a small list. These courses can complement any major or minor. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Social Workers Psychologists Health Education Specialists Medical and Health Services Managers School and Career Counselors and Advisors Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Psychologists $94,310 Median SalaryPsychologists (master’s or Ph.D. usually required) Overall employment of psychologists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 12,900 openings for psychologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health Education Specialists $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialists Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Medical and Health Services Managers $117,960 Median SalaryMedical and Health Services Managers Employment of medical and health services managers is projected to grow 23 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 62,100 openings for medical and health services managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. School and Career Counselors and Advisors $65,140 Median SalarySchool and Career Counselors and Advisors (master’s usually required) Employment of school and career counselors and advisors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,000 openings for school and career counselors and advisors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study You’ll explore ways that sexuality and gender intersect with race, ethnicity, class, age, religion, disability, and nationality in people’s lives. Our curriculum incorporates opportunities for research, internships, and real-life advocacy work, ensuring that you complete the program with first-hand experience and a deep understanding of the issues. Many of our students go on to seminary, law school, or graduate school in related fields. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Women's and Gender Studies, BA Sociology, BA Health and Human Services, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit