Practical Aspects of Computer Security, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Practical Aspects of Computer Security, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Get Your Start in Computer SecurityIf you’d like an entry-level job in IT security, this certificate will provide you with the essential computer science concepts, basic security principles, and tools and experience you need. In the four-course, 15-credit certificate program you’ll learn about computer security principles, firewalls, malware, intrusion detection, physical security, wireless network security, mobile device security, social network security, and web application security.You can transfer the 15 credits earned with the certificate into a UM-Dearborn Bachelor of Science degree program in Computer and Information Science or Cybersecurity and Information Assurance. This gives you a pathway to earn a valuable credential before transitioning into a degree program. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Information Security Analysts Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Systems Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Computer Network Architects Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The certificate program balances theoretical knowledge with hands-on experience to prepare you for entry-level jobs as a computer programmer, computer support specialist, and cybersecurity analyst, among others.The 15-credit certificate program consists of four courses:Computer Science IComputer Science IIDiscrete Structures IPractical Computer Security Explore Program Requirements Admissions Requirements Applicants must have a minimum GPA of 2.5 on their high school or college transcripts. It’s also strongly recommended, although not required, that applicants complete Calculus I or have equivalent experience. Students who lack the math background can register for Calculus I as part of their certificate course plan.To apply, current UM-Dearborn students should fill out the Declaration of Certificate Form and submit it to their advising office for approval. Students who aren’t currently enrolled at UM-Dearborn can apply for admission to the program using the Online Non-Degree Application (select “Certificates”). Related Programs Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Computer and Information Science, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit