Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Get a Doctorate While You WorkWorking professionals who aspire to engage in applied and developmental research in the academic, industrial, or government sectors can gain the necessary knowledge and skills with a Doctor of Engineering in electrical and computer engineering degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.The program is designed to train students to conduct research and develop innovative technologies in the fields of electrical and computer engineering, robotics, energy systems, data science, and cyber-physical systems.Where a DEng in Electrical and Computer Engineering Degree Will Take YouThe possibilities are endless. Simply pursuing the doctorate while working at the same time signals to employers that you have the ambition and drive to succeed in whatever you tackle. Add in the advanced knowledge and skills you’ll gain during the program, and you become absolutely invaluable in technical leadership roles for a variety of employers. Program Details What You’ll Study The Electrical and Computer Engineering DEng program focuses on applied and developmental research, innovative concepts, and preparation of graduates for technical leadership roles across the broad spectrum of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Students can focus their research over many areas in ECE such as: Communications and Computer Networks; Computer and Embedded Systems; Control Systems and Signal Processing; Electronics and Optoelectronics; Energy and Power Systems; Intelligent Systems; Robotics and Autonomy; and Security & Privacy of Cyber-Physical System.The program is targeted to working professionals and only accepts students with prior professional experience in a relevant field such as electrical, computer, or robotics engineering. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our experiential learning approach means you are not just stuck in a classroom; you are in labs, working with industry-standard software and hardware. This hands-on work enhances your learning by exposing you to real-world problems and solutions. Admission Requirements The following are the minimum requirements for admission in the Doctor of Engineering (D.Eng.) in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE).A master’s degree in engineering or computer science from an accredited program.Bachelor’s GPA: 3.0 on a 4.0-scale for regular admission.Master’s GPA: 3.2 on a 4.0-scale for regular admission.At least two years of full-time equivalent research and development experience in industry.Three recommendation letters. At least one letter from a supervisor/employer; at least one letter from a faculty member. In the case of working students, the letter must show commitment and support from the employer.A statement of purpose including a research topic and research plan.It is strongly suggested to identify a faculty advisor at the time of application. A faculty advisor must be identified after admission and before a student first enrolls.Preference is given to:Students with scholarships provided by companies or government organizations.Students with a commitment by employers in writing such as reduced working hours, e.g. 30 hours/week, for the first three years. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program admits for the Fall term only and operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by February 1 for consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Electrical and Electronics Engineers Aerospace Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Network Architects Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Computer and Information Science, PhD Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit