Research The research side of UM-Dearborn is expanding fast. Breadcrumb Home Research In this section In this section Research Toggle Submenu About UM-Dearborn Research Resources for Researchers We pride ourselves on having highly interdisciplinary teams that work collaboratively to solve challenges in sustainability, mobility, educational research and curriculum innovation, additive manufacturing and materials, social equity, cyber-physical systems, bioengineering, 21st century energy systems, urban arts and other fields that are vital to our lives. We also believe that everyone has a role to play in research, whether you’re an undergrad or post-doc, early-career faculty or renowned veteran. News 3/16/2026 Does polluted air dampen your mood? A CASL and CECS interdisciplinary project strengthens the research connection between air quality and wellbeing, while also developing a new algorithm that aids in high-quality data collection. 3/23/2026 ‘They are not standing at the edge of discovery — they are inside it’ Associate Professor of Biochemistry Besa Xhabija, a cancer researcher, explores ways to inhibit cancer cell growth. She’s training undergraduates to assist her in making new discoveries. 3/18/2026 Helping stop widespread blackouts before they start Graduate student Birva Sevak developed two artificial intelligence models to help electric grid operators understand current conditions and predict future failures. 1/26/2026 A new medical device could help diagnose infants with vestibular issues Designed and built by students, faculty and staff from UM-Dearborn, a rotational chair for infants could make screening for vestibular issues as common as newborn hearing tests. View More News News More Research Stories 2/9/2026 Office of Research update: February 2026 Check out the calendar of upcoming research events, discover new funding opportunities and learn about ways to support your work in this month's update from the Office of Research.... 1/26/2026 A new medical device could help diagnose infants with vestibular issues Designed and built by students, faculty and staff from UM-Dearborn, a rotational chair for infants could make screening for vestibular issues as common as newborn hearing tests. ... 1/16/2026 UM-Dearborn Biochemistry Program Earns Seven-Year ASBMB Accreditation National recognition from the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB) affirms program quality, student preparation, and sustained academic growth through 2032... 1/14/2026 Can AI improve emergency rooms? UM-Dearborn Associate Professor Mohamed Abouelenien and researchers from the U-M Medical School are looking to machine learning to boost ER survival rates.... Featured Initiatives Dearborn Artificial Intelligence Research (DAIR) Center Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) Program Plan Your Next Project UM-Dearborn’s talented staff can help researchers with funding, grant writing, post-award compliance — or with finding a faculty mentor or industry partner. Check out some of the most commonly used resources below. Find Funding Corporate and Foundation Relations Learn About Compliance Start a Proposal