Criminology and Criminal Justice, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Criminology and Criminal Justice, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College-Wide Programs Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters From Cops to Courts and BeyondWhat causes crime? Why do people engage in deviant behavior? How do we know when and if justice has truly been served? You'll explore these questions and many more in our Criminology and Criminal Justice bachelor's degree, housed in the Criminology, Law, and Criminal Justice Program, at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, a truly interdisciplinary program covering all matters of crime, justice, and the law with attention to issues of class, race, and gender. We're dedicated to shaping the future of criminology and criminal justice, one student at a time. Our curriculum blends theoretical knowledge with practical application, preparing you to influence policy choices and contribute to societal change.Where a Criminology and Criminal Justice Degree Will Take YouOur program prepares you for a career in public safety and security, criminal justice administration, law and paralegal professions, public administration, policy analysis, social work, and community organizing and advocacy. It also provides a great foundation for pursuing a law degree or graduate studies, such as in our master's program in criminology and criminal justice at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Police and Detectives Probation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists Social Workers Lawyers Forensic Science Technicians Police and Detectives $77,270 Median SalaryPolice and Detectives Overall employment of police and detectives is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 62,200 openings for police and detectives are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Probation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists $64,520 Median SalaryProbation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists Employment of probation officers and correctional treatment specialists is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for probation officers and correctional treatment specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Lawyers $151,160 Median SalaryLawyers (law degree required) Employment of lawyers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,500 openings for lawyers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Forensic Science Technicians $67,440 per yearForensic Science Technicians Employment of forensic science technicians is projected to grow 13 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for forensic science technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The program consists of four required foundational courses (16 credits), one required methods courses (4 credits), two electives courses (8 credits), and one applied course (4 credits) from a suite of over four dozen interdisciplinary courses covering intelligence and homeland security, civil rights and liberties, corrections, restorative justice, juvenile justice, gender, sexuality and justice, immigration, media, white collar crime, environmental justice, and government and nonprofit leadership, among other topics. You'll also have the option to complete a Criminal Justice Internship in the field. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain We believe in learning by doing. We require all of our majors to take an applied practicum course, such as one of several Project-Based Learning (PBL) courses, or an internship with supervised field experience at an agency focused on criminal justice and law enforcement. Interns spend a minimum of 149 hours on site, applying what they’ve learned to real-world situations.For example, share a transformative learning environment with state inmates in the Inside Out Prison Exchange (CRJ 476/576), a course that co-enrolls UM-Dearborn students and incarcerated students taught inside a correctional facility. Or, investigate decades-old cases with local law enforcement through our Cold Case Partnership. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The 12-credit minor in criminology and criminal justice consists of one required theory course and two electives that you choose from more than four dozen options.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) The 4+1 accelerated program option lets you complete your undergraduate degree in Criminology and Criminal Justice majors or Sociology and a Master of Science (MS) in Criminology and Criminal Justice in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to 15 credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0.Applying to the 4+1/Accelerated option is a two-stage process coordinated with both your undergraduate and graduate advising teams. For detailed instructions and application links, please visit the central 4+1 programs webpage. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee I have longed for wanting to help people, and I feel as though the Criminal Justice field has allowed me to be able to do that and be bigger than myself. HELENA HENDERSON, CCJ How to Get Involved There are many ways to get involved at UM-Dearborn. You can join the Criminology and Criminal Justice Collective or the Pre Law Association, participate in the Inside-Out Prison Exchange program, attend the annual Criminal Justice Exposition to meet recruiters from local, state, and federal criminal justice agencies, check out general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much more. Programs Offered Beyond BA Criminology and Criminal Justice, MS Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) Clinical Health Psychology, MS Related Programs Behavioral and Biological Sciences, BS Urban and Regional Studies, BA Law and Society, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit