Office of Community-Engaged Learning Breadcrumb Home Office of Community-Engaged Learning In this section In this section Office of Community Engaged Learning Toggle Submenu Community Partner Resources Toggle Submenu Dearborn Community Projects Faculty Resources Toggle Submenu Conferences Engaged Faculty Spotlight Problem-Based Learning Courses Research and Seed Grants Toggle Submenu Seed Grant Awardees Engagement Toggle Submenu Engaged Campus Series Speakers Institutional Engagement Ford Collaboratory Collaboratory Database Carnegie Classification Urban Futures How We Do Our Work Meet Our Team The Office of Community-Engaged Learning supports University of Michigan-Dearborn's mission by: Cultivating faculty who are leaders in their disciplines, inspire their students, and care for their students' needs;Creating and sharing pioneering interdisciplinary research that supports diverse sections of our economy, with an emphasis on work that serves the common good;Making lasting local impacts by valuing the experiences, knowledge, needs, and voices of our business and community partners; andForging mutually beneficial partnerships with businesses, community-based organizations, educational institutions, and government agencies 2026 Seed Grant applications are LIVE! Application for 2026 Community-Based Research Seed GrantApplication for 2026 Community-Based Project Seed GrantApplications are due March 13th, 2026. OCEL's Mission and Vision MissionThe Office of Community-Engaged Learning (OCEL) is dedicated to supporting the University’s mission of deepening community impact. The office does this by forging mutually beneficial partnerships between university and community through curricular and aligned co-curricular opportunities.We at OCEL connect the University to community partners for engaged coursework, research, and service. Our work is prioritized into 3 main buckets: Supporting Student Success and RetentionSupporting Faculty Research, Scholarship, and ServiceIncreasing Community Voice and OCEL’s Visibility on CampusWe achieve this by:Educating students and faculty on best practices of community engagement, such as classroom workshops and consulting;Supporting community-engaged academic experiences, such as stewarding the proliferation of CC and CE course attributes;Building capacity for community engaged faculty scholarship and grant acquisition, through efforts like our annual seed grant program;Institutionalizing community-engagement on campus, through efforts like maintaining Carnegie Engaged Campus Classification; andIncluding community voice in campus decision making, such as hosting a community advisory board and regularly surveying and debriefing with partners.VisionInstitutionalizing community engagement on campus by valuing the input and experiences of community partners. OCEL has supported UM-Dearborn in the following ways: Learn about Collaboratory, UM-Dearborn's new Community Engagement Database How To Reach Us The Office of Community-Engaged Learning will be operating university business on a hybrid basis. Our in person office hours vary, so please email [email protected] with questions or [email protected] if you need to make an appointment. We acknowledge that the University of Michigan resides on the ancestral, traditional, and contemporary lands of the Anishinaabeg – The Three Fire Confederacy of the Ojibwe, Odawa, and Potawatomi Nations, as well as the Wyandot Nation. In particular, the university resides on land gifted by the three Nations and the Wyandot Nation, along with many other Indigenous Nations, in the 1817 Treaty of Fort Meigs. We acknowledge the language of "gift" in the original treaty entails mutual relationships between treaty parties, respect, and obligation on the part of the settlers. We advocate for Indigenous struggles against ongoing settler-colonization and strive for a decolonized future. Related News More News 1/14/2026 UM-Dearborn recognized for community impact UM-Dearborn earned the Carnegie Community Engagement Classification for the second time.... 1/7/2026 How will you celebrate MLK’s legacy? UM-Dearborn and Henry Ford College offer more than 22 service opportunities on the 40th anniversary of MLK Day’s national observance.... 11/6/2023 Growing the farming movement in Detroit UM-Dearborn student Tepfirah "Tee" Rushdan, Detroit's first director of urban agriculture, is working to grow community efforts toward food sustainability.... 3/29/2023 An update from the Office of Metropolitan Impact Learn about UM-Dearborn's subscription to Collaboratory, a tool for tracking community engagement activities.... Office of Community-Engaged Learning Suite 1100, First Floor - Ford Collaboratory - Mardigian Library 4901 Evergreen Rd Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map [email protected]