Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Hispanic Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Hispanic Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Meet the Faculty Study the Spanish Language and CultureWith more than 400 million Spanish speakers around the world, studying the Spanish language and culture is increasingly useful and practical. Given the Hispanic presence in the United States and the proximity of our Spanish-speaking neighbors in Latin America, being proficient in Spanish is ever more advantageous and even necessary for numerous careers and professions.In our Hispanic studies program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll master Spanish language and communication while also gaining a rich understanding of Hispanic history, literature, and contemporary society.Where a Hispanic Studies Degree Will Take YouA Hispanic studies degree opens the door to a wealth of career options. You can pursue work in sales and marketing, business management, international trade, tourism and travel, international relations, bilingual education, translation, medical or legal interpretation, refugee/immigrant assistance, customs/immigration enforcement, and journalism, among many others. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Health Education Specialists Political Scientists Social Workers Lawyers Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health Education Specialists $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialists Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists (master’s usually required) Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Lawyers $151,160 Median SalaryLawyers (law degree required) Employment of lawyers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 31,500 openings for lawyers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Before starting the requirements in your Hispanic studies major, you must complete fourth-semester Spanish (SPAN 202) or demonstrate equivalent language proficiency. The Foreign Language Assessment is strongly recommended for students with less than three years prior experience in a language who plan to continue in that language at UM-Dearborn (whether required for graduation or not). This assessment should be taken prior to attending your Orientation Session. The major itself is quite flexible. You must complete 24 credits of upper-level Spanish classes, but only a four-credit introductory course is required. You choose the remaining 20 credits, mostly from groups of related courses. You can study the language of business, advanced written expression, Spanish food and culture, Latino literature, Hispanic cinema, Spanish film, Latin American literature, or Spanish literature, among other options. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain We encourage all Hispanic studies students to participate in UM-Dearborn’s study abroad program. At Hablando de Valencia, the study abroad program at the Institute of Spanish Studies in Valencia, Spain, our students take classes, live with Spanish families, go on excursions, and travel throughout Spain, immersing themselves in the Spanish language and culture.More hands-on experiences are available in our internship and research programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more.Students will learn:Writing: Write effectively in target languageSpeaking: Speak effectively in target languageReading and comprehending: Read critically in target language and comprehend the spoken target languageCultural literacy: Identify and appreciate cultural difference appropriate to the target languageLiterature: Familiarity with literary histories appropriate to the studied languageUnderstanding of linguistic structure: Familiarity with grammar, syntax, phonology of the target language Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in Spanish (SPAN).Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. You will have the opportunity to interact with students and faculty from diverse backgrounds, such as Spain, Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, and the United States. Associate Professor of Spanish, Carlos Rodriguez-McGill, Ph.D. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join La Mezcla, a club that promotes the Spanish language and Hispanic cultures on and off campus; help your friends register to vote; volunteer for a variety of community outreach activities; check out the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus; and much more. Related Programs International Studies, BA Professional Language and Cross-Cultural Competency, Certificate Spanish for Health Care Professionals, Certificate Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit