Anthropology, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Anthropology, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Behavioral Sciences Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore How Human Culture Works Over Space and TimeAnthropology is the study of what makes us human. In the context of a globalized world, Anthropology can also help us imagine and design futures that attend to human and environmental change. As an anthropology major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll explore human biology, culture, religion, race, gender, and language using scientific research methods, and you will learn to become aware of and critically evaluate your own culture. You'll also gain skills necessary in the workplace including communication, community engagement, cultural awareness, teamwork, problem solving, project design and management, planning and organizing, observation and storytelling, data collection, and qualitative and quantitative research skills.Where an Anthropology Degree Will Take YouThe knowledge and skills you’ll develop as an anthropology major open doors in many fields, including law, medicine, public health, business, engineering (e.g. user experience research), education, social work, criminal justice, international development, social policy, communications, management, and nonprofit work. They also are excellent preparation for graduate work in anthropology, museum studies, and other social science fields. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Anthropologists and Archeologists Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Public Relations and Fundraising Managers Archivists, Curators, and Museum Workers Anthropologists and Archeologists $64,910 Median SalaryAnthropologists and Archeologists (master’s usually required) Employment of anthropologists and archeologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 800 openings for anthropologists and archeologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations and Fundraising Managers $132,870 Median SalaryPublic Relations and Fundraising Managers Overall employment of public relations and fundraising managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 10,200 openings for public relations and fundraising managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Archivists, Curators, and Museum Workers $57,100 Median SalaryArchivists, Curators, and Museum Workers Overall employment of archivists, curators, and museum workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,800 openings for archivists, curators, and museum workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study Your anthropology major provides enormous flexibility to tailor the program to your own interests and professional goals. Out of 36-40 credits of anthropology courses you’ll take, only one course is required. You choose some other courses from various groupings, but 24 credits are electives.Depending on which courses you choose, you may study prehistoric archaeology, forensic anthropology, biological anthropology and human evolution, human genetics, world cultures, culture and global business, the African experience in the Americas, the anthropology of the Middle East, power and privilege in southeast Michigan, sexuality and culture, men and masculinities, language and society, medical anthropology, and religion and culture, among other subjects.Identify and apply anthropological methods and theories to solving complex social and biological problems at local, regional, and global levelsExplain the holistic nature of anthropology and demonstrate its power as an analytical and conceptual tool to understand the human conditionCommunicate anthropological ideas effectively and concisely, verbally and in writing, for multiple audiencesExplain anthropological research methods and theories, and apply these to the analysis and reporting of quantitative and qualitative dataEmploy cross-cultural comparisons over space and time to explain how social constructs such as race, gender, and status are created and challengedGain hands-on experience in designing, conducting, and writing about applied research, community outreach, and service projectsMore hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your coursework will train you to apply anthropological perspective to human and environmental change in ways that apply to your career. Practical skills taught in courses include cultural awareness (how to see things in context and recognize patterns), data analysis (how to break down large amounts of complex data into themes and insights), research (including methods, project design, problem solving, and project management), ethnography (listening, communicating, story telling), as well as a range of other skills including observation, contextual inquiry, data collection, survey design, teamwork and collaboration. Students in our program gain these skills through personalized, hands on experiences including via our:Archaeology Lab, a project site for archaeology research programs, collections, and teachingBiological Anthropology Lab, a project site for our biological anthropology coursework and researchEthnographic Research Lab, a project site for our hired anthropology research assistants and collaboratorsArchaeological Digs at the River Raisin National Battlefield ParkConference and professional development for students (including at the Michigan Undergraduate Forum and the American Anthropological Association’s annual meetings)Beth A. Beson Anthropology Field Study Award (participate in summer field schools around the world)Independent Study OptionsExtensive project based learning and community engaged learning opportunitiesPersonalized support of students including career advising, recommendations, and professional development. Check out the Course Catalog Requirements for the Minor/Concentration in Anthropology A minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 15 credits of upper-level (numbered 300 or above) courses in anthropology (ANTH). Students majoring in a wide range of subjects may find an anthropology minor to be a valuable supplement to their major.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Field School and Field Scholarship Field schools teaching anthropological research methods can be life-changing experiences that provide essential training for careers in anthropology as well as practical field research experience applicable to other professions. Field schools take place all over the world and provide students with training in anthropological methods in archaeology, human paleontology, bioarchaeology, ethnology, linguistics, and primatology. UM-Dearborn students have attended field schools in Australia, Jordan, Kenya, Peru, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Mexico, Spain, France, Ireland, and various sites in the United States. These programs are not required for an Anthropology major or minor, but we encourage you to consider the possibility of such a program.UM-Dearborn’s Anthropology program helps provide these experiences in two ways. We offer a Field School Scholarship through the Beth A. Beson Anthropology Field Study Award that helps students subsidize the costs of attending a field school in their chosen area. The scholarship program is competitive, and preference is given to students majoring or minoring in anthropology. Anthropology faculty also run their own field schools both locally during the term and internationally over the summer that can be elected for UM-Dearborn credit (see ANTH 410).For additional information about the Field School and Field School Scholarship, contact: Rose Wellman, Ph.D. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Anthropology is the study of humans -- their language, culture, and how they develop over time. ALAA ABOUHASHIM, ANTHROPOLOGY How to Get Involved You can join the UM-Dearborn Association of Student Anthropologists, participate in the anthropology mentor program in which junior and senior majors assist faculty in teaching introductory classes, present the results of your research at undergraduate research conferences and professional meetings, check out general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much more. Finally, all students are invited to connect to our alum network on LinkedIn. Related Programs Sociology, BA Psychology, BA/BS History, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit