Applied Behavior Analysis, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Applied Behavior Analysis, MS CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources ABA Program Handbook College of Education, Health, and Human Services M.S. Applied Behavior Analysis Flyer Help People Address Their Behavioral NeedsApplied behavior analysis is the scientific study of human behavior with the goal of helping individuals improve their social, educational, health, adaptive skills, and behavioral outcomes through the development of programming based on the principles of ABA.UM-Dearborn offers full or part-time opportunities to earn your Master of Science degree in applied behavior analysis. Current UM-Dearborn undergraduate students can pursue the accelerated 4+1 path, saving significant time and more than $12,000 in tuition.Where an Applied Behavior Analysis Degree Will Take YouThe degree will equip you with the necessary skills and knowledge to work in clinical, educational, pre-vocational, vocational, home, and community settings. You may provide services to individuals who have problems involving academic performance, basic skills, behavior, and social interactions. You also may collect and analyze data, write and evaluate behavior intervention plans, train others to implement treatment plans, and oversee implementation of treatment plans.Completion of the M.S. prepares you to complete the required supervised field work and sit for the Board Certified Behavior Analyst examination. Program Details What You’ll Study The courses are firmly grounded in theory, but they emphasize applying that theory to socially significant and effective practice. They cover subjects such as science and human behavior, behavioral assessments, ethics, program development and management, developmental disabilities, educating the exceptional child, child maltreatment and trauma, and the family.All coursework is based upon the Behavior Analyst Certification Board's (BACB) 6th Edition Test Content Outline (TCO). Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we complement theoretical learning with practice-based experiences. You’ll gain hands-on, real-world experience in applied behavior analysis, working closely with individuals to improve their behavioral outcomes. This valuable experience provides a deeper understanding of the field, preparing you for a variety of professional settings.You can access the learning goals of the Applied Behavior Analysis program in the university catalog. To access the Mission Statement and Program Model for our program you can find it in our ABA Program Handbook. Two Degree Paths: Master’s and Accelerated 4+1 The first path is traditional. You start the program after completing your undergraduate degree in a subject of your choice. It typically takes 2.5 years to complete based on your course load. You can take courses full time or part time, and evening courses are available to accommodate working students.The second path is an accelerated 4+1 program. You pursue any undergraduate major at UM-Dearborn. During your senior year, you take five graduate-level classes in the applied behavior analysis program that are “double counted” toward both your undergraduate and graduate degrees. This lets you complete the remaining requirements for an MS in applied behavior analysis in just one year. Learn more about the 4+1 accelerated program. Accreditation For students admitted for the Fall 2024 semester and beyond, the M.S. in Applied Behavior Analysis program meets the behavior analytic coursework requirements for those pursuing the BCBA pathway 2 eligibility route. Students will need to meet additional requirements to qualify for the BCBA credential.The M.S. in Applied Behavior Analysis program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is pursuing recognition through the Association for Behavior Analysis International’s (ABAI) Tiered Model of Education. Pursuit of recognition does not denote recognition status. Admission Requirements A GRE is not required. Students must submit the following with their application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institution3.0 GPA or higher on submitted transcriptsTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purposeStudents may find additional information that is available from our Office of Graduate Studies. Academic Policies The College of Education, Health, and Human Services follows all UM-Dearborn academic policies and procedures.The following UM-Dearborn policies may be of great interest to CEHHS students. Additional College of Education, Health, and Human Services policies are also listed below.Highlighted UM-Dearborn PoliciesAcademic Code of ConductChange of GradesNon-Discrimination and DiversityAdditional College of Education, Health, and Human Services Policies and ProceduresCEHHS Cancelled Class Communication ProcessCEHHS Educators Dispositions PolicyPass/Fail PolicyCEHHS Grade Grievance PolicyCEHHS Incomplete (I) Policy M.S. ABA Program Data Collection Each year, the M.S. in Applied Behavior Analysis program collects outcomes assessment data on its students. The following data are provided so that students can make informed decisions about applying to the program.Information on student retention is available from our Office of Institutional Research and Effectiveness. M.S. ABA Program Data Collection Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Behavioral Counselors Behavioral Counselors $59,190 Median SalaryBehavioral Counselors (master’s usually required) Employment of substance abuse, behavioral disorder, and mental health counselors is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 48,300 openings for substance abuse, behavioral disorder, and mental health counselors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit