Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Business Analytics, BBA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Business Analytics, BBA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Unlock the Power of DataTurn numbers into actionable insights with a Business Analytics major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. This STEM-designated major will give you skills to analyze data, make informed decisions, and solve complex business challenges across a variety of industries.Where a Business Analytics Major Will Take YouThe Business Analytics major prepares you to excel in the growing field of data-driven decision-making. With a foundation in statistics, machine learning, programming, and visualization, you'll be equipped to help businesses optimize operations, predict market trends, and make strategic decisions.Industries such as finance, healthcare, technology, and retail are in constant need of professionals who can transform raw data into meaningful insights.The STEM designation also provides international students with an extended Optional Practical Training (OPT) period, enhancing opportunities to gain valuable U.S. work experience after graduation. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Market Research Analyst Operations Research Analyst Management Analyst Financial Analyst Data Scientist Market Research Analyst $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analyst Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analyst $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analyst Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Management Analyst $101,190 Median SalaryManagement Analyst Employment of management analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 98,100 openings for management analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analyst $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analyst Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientist $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientist Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The required courses in your 120-credit degree consist of the Dearborn Discovery Core general education courses, a course in critical thinking, 29 credits of BBA prerequisites, 37-38 credits in BBA Core courses, and 21 credits in your business analytics major.Your Business Analytics major focuses on the application of mathematical statistics and advanced analytics to business decision-making. Core topics include:Machine learning techniques for business applicationsBusiness forecasting using Python programmingData visualization to communicate insightsPrescriptive analytics and optimization methodsDatabase systems and programming for analytics Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Through coursework, experiential learning, and hands-on projects, you will develop skills in:Data analysis and forecasting to predict market and organizational trendsProgramming in Python for analytics applicationsVisualizing and presenting complex data effectivelyApplying machine learning and optimization techniques to solve real-world business problemsLeveraging analytics to support decision-making across finance, marketing, and supply chains Requirements for Minor The 15-credit minor consists of five required courses you choose from seven options, allowing students to customize their learning to complement other business majors. Explore Minor Requirements Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Opportunities abound outside the classroom. You can compete for thousands of dollars in cash prizes at the UM-Dearborn Business Idea Pitch, volunteer for a community project through the Office of Student Life, or join any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus. Some of the professional student organizations that may especially interest you include Alpha Kappa Psi, American Marketing Association, Beta Alpha Psi, Financial Management Association, Society for Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Association, and Women in Business. Programs Offered Beyond BBA Marketing, MS Business Analytics, MS Business Administration, MBA Related Programs Information Systems Management, BBA Finance, BBA Marketing, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit