Clinical Health Psychology, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Clinical Health Psychology, MS CASL Graduate Programs draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty Behavioral Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Our Clinical Health Psychology master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is a two-year, 48-credit Specialization in Clinical Health Psychology. The program trains you to provide mental health care to clients in traditional clinical psychology settings (e.g., clinics; hospitals) and elsewhere (e.g., medical settings; research settings). The curriculum fulfills the course requirements for the Michigan Limited License when combined with one year of supervised postgraduate work in an organized health care setting.Where a Clinical Health Psychology M.S. Will Take YouA Clinical Health Psychology, MS will prepare you to provide counseling and other mental health care to clients. Additionally, you will gain valuable research and statistical skills necessary for conducting and consuming research designed to improve diagnosis, treatment planning, psychotherapy process, psychotherapy outcomes, and risk assessment. Program Details What You’ll Study As part of the MS in Clinical Health Psychology program, you'll take multiple courses in psychological assessment and neuropsychology, multiple courses in psychotherapy methods, multiple courses in statistics and research methods, and courses in health psychology, biopsychology, and professional ethics. Additionally, you will have the option to take 6 elective credits OR to complete 6 Thesis credits. If you opt to complete a thesis, you will work individually with a faculty mentor to develop their own research study, collect data, write up their results, and present their thesis. For more information on what a master's thesis entails, download our Thesis Manual. As part of the program, you will complete two terms (6 credits) of professional practicum. In practicum, you will work in a clinical setting in the community (e.g., hospital; assessment clinic; psychotherapy clinic) and be supervised by a licensed practitioner. This allows you to take skills built in the classroom and apply them in real-world settings.View our Student Handbook, designed as a comprehensive guide for prospective and current students of the MS in Clinical Health Psychology program. It outlines program application procedures, policies, requirements, and expectations. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You will develop a base proficiency in cognitive behavioral therapy interventions, acceptance-and-commitment therapy interventions, and motivational interviewing interventions. Additionally, you will gain skills in common factors necessary for conducting effective therapy (e.g., establishing a treatment alliance; reflection; obtaining informed consent). You will develop base proficiency with a number of psychological tests, including intelligence and achievement tests, personality and symptom tests, intake interviews, and assessment methods for assessing neuropsychological functioning and social functioning. Finally, you will develop skills for conducting statistical analyses and designing research studies; these skills are necessary for helping students conduct research (if they choose to do so) and for consuming research (i.e., staying updated on emerging trends in the field to ensure empirically supported practice of psychotherapy).A wide variety of hands-on experiences are also available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admissions Requirements Our program requires:A BA or BS degree in Psychology or a related field with a cumulative undergraduate GPA of at least 3.2Undergraduate classes in Introductory Psychology, Abnormal Psychology, and Statistics required; Health Psychology and Research Methods recommended but not requiredThe GRE is not required.Personal statement instructions for Clinical Health Psychology.Three letters of recommendation (at least two of which are academic) are needed. It has not been determined whether educational prerequisites provided by this program would satisfy licensure requirements in other states. Thus, if you are not planning to pursue LLP licensure in the state of Michigan following graduation from our program, we encourage you to contact the appropriate licensing agency in the state in which you are located or in the state in which you intend to seek future licensure. Information on how to contact the licensure board in other states.If you are registering for this program from a state other than Michigan, you may be required to attest that you are aware that the program was designed to fulfill requirements for an LLP in the state of Michigan and/or that you are intending to pursue an LLP in the state of Michigan. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Psychologists Mental Health Counselors Human Resources Managers Marriage and Family Therapists Psychologists $94,310 Median SalaryPsychologists Overall employment of psychologists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 12,900 openings for psychologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mental Health Counselors $59,190 Median SalarySubstance Abuse, Behavioral Disorder, and Mental Health Counselors Employment of substance abuse, behavioral disorder, and mental health counselors is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 48,300 openings for substance abuse, behavioral disorder, and mental health counselors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Human Resources Managers $140,030 Median SalaryHuman Resources Managers Employment of human resources managers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,900 openings for human resources managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Marriage and Family Therapists $63,780 Median SalaryMarriage and Family Therapists Employment of marriage and family therapists is projected to grow 13 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 7,700 openings for marriage and family therapists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program admits for the Fall term only and operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by March 15 for consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. View Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships MS in Clinical Health Psychology How to Get Involved You can become a supplemental instructor or tutor, join the Psychology Students Association, present the results of your research at professional meetings, check out general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics, and much more. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit