Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Rebekah Awood, Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5241(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Dive into Research in Our Doctoral ProgramWe’ve designed our PhD program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn for talented students who will conduct original, innovative research in the engineering field, educate future generations, and play leading roles in developing cutting-edge technologies while working in industry, academia, or government.The program is a full time, research-based degree with a strong orientation toward the interfaces between the science of mechanical engineering, bioengineering, and the emerging fields in which mechanical engineering intersects with the materials sciences, automotive engineering, optical engineering, and advanced energy technologies.To lessen financial concerns, all PhD students receive full funding in the form of appointments as a graduate student instructor, a research assistant, or both. The appointments provide a monthly stipend, health insurance, and a tuition waiver. Students are guaranteed full funding for up to five years provided they maintain good academic standing and adequate progress toward their degree.The PhD program is a part of the Rackham School of Graduate Studies of the University of Michigan. While located, administered, and offered by UM-Dearborn, the program observes the standards for admissions, registration, degree requirements, awarding of degrees, and other policies and regulations of the Rackham Graduate School. Where a PhD in Mechanical Sciences and Engineering Will Take YouOur graduates have found successful careers as faculty members, scientists at national labs and leading universities, and conduct advanced research at major corporations. Whether you see yourself developing advanced technology, conducting innovative research, or leading in industry, academia, or government, your PhD in Mechanical Sciences and Engineering from UM-Dearborn can get you there. Program Details What You’ll Study UM-Dearborn’s Mechanical Sciences and Engineering PhD program trains you to conduct original and innovative research in the engineering field, educate future generations, and play a leading role in developing cutting-edge technologies while working in industry, academia, and government. In our program, you’ll also explore advanced knowledge of the foundational principles of mechanical sciences and engineering within your chosen specialization: Mechanical Engineering or Bioengineering. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain You will learn how to conduct high-quality scientific research and report your results in publications and presentations. You will gain teaching experience by serving as graduate student instructors in labs and recitations. Admission Requirements The minimum requirements for admission to the program include:A bachelor’s or master’s degree in mechanical engineering or a closely related field with a minimum GPA (grade point average) at or equivalent to 3.2 on a 4.0 scale. Candidates with other engineering degrees or degrees from non-engineering fields are considered with the understanding that they have to complete remediation coursework upon admission.Submission of a full application package which includes: at least three letters of recommendation (must be on letterhead and indicate the student's research potential),an academic statement of purpose indicating the intended field or fields of research, anda personal statement that describes the background and life experiences, including cultural, geographical, financial, educational or other opportunities or challenges, that motivate the decision to pursue a Ph.D. degree at the University of Michigan-DearbornThe expected backgrounds of successful applicants will far exceed the minimum requirements. We target students with:Strong background in natural sciences and mathematicsGPA higher than 3.5 on a 4.0 scale and a degree from a university with a recognized high quality of graduatesDemonstrated interest in research or prior R&D experienceDemonstrated commitment to Ph.D. studies and a subsequent career in academia, research, or industrial R&DProficiency in the English language and good communication skills Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program operates on a strict deadline. All application and materials must be submitted by February 1 for Fall consideration and August 1 for Winter consideration. Please plan ahead to meet all deadlines and optimize your chances of acceptance. Application Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Related Programs Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Mechanical Engineering, MSE Bioengineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit