Artificial Intelligence, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Artificial Intelligence, MS CIS Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Computer and Information Science Path to Degree College of Engineering and Computer Science 4+1 Accelerated Masters Options Help Shape AI’s Role in Our WorldArtificial intelligence is all over the news, and it’s one of the hottest fields in technology. If you aspire to do AI research and development or to have a leadership career in industry, our Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence program at UM-Dearborn will help get you there.Core classes in the intensive curriculum will give you an in-depth understanding of major concepts that build the foundation for artificial intelligence theory and practice. You’ll also choose courses from one of the four concentrations that you declared and the coursework/project/thesis options, giving you the opportunity to shape the program based on your personal interests and professional needs. You can attend classes online, in person, or a combination of both. We schedule all courses during late afternoons and evenings, making them convenient for part-time students who work.Where Will an MS in AI Take Me?Artificial intelligence is a transformative technology, its exact applications and implications still unknown. With an MS in AI from UM-Dearborn, you’ll be prepared to push the boundaries of existing AI technologies, conduct research that fuels tomorrow’s advances, refine human-technology interactions, create new devices and software that incorporate AI, and much more. Program Details What You’ll Study Our 30-credit AI program provides a comprehensive study of the field. Your core courses will cover the fundamental principles and practices in areas like computational learning, algorithm analysis and design, and software engineering. You’ll also choose three courses from one of four concentrations:Computer VisionIntelligent InteractionKnowledge Management and ReasoningMachine LearningDepending on which concentration you choose, you may select courses in computer graphics, robot vision, computer game design, human-computer interaction, text mining and information retrieval, information security, data mining, deep learning, research advances in artificial intelligence, fuzzy systems, and many related topics.The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain UM-Dearborn focuses heavily on practice-based learning. We cover theory, but you’ll also have opportunities to participate in advanced directed studies and hands-on experiences while collaborating on practical projects and solving problems in real time. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs offer a wealth of real-world opportunities. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Admission Requirements To be considered for regular admission, you must have a bachelor’s degree in a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics field from an accredited institution and an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher.An entering student should have completed the relevant courses in programming, mathematics, and statistics (see the list below). A course in calculus III and a course in linear algebra are recommended but not required. GRE is not required.ProgrammingCIS 200/CIS 2001 (or equivalent) requiredCIS 350 (or equivalent) requiredMathematicsMATH 116 (or equivalent) requiredCIS 275 or ECE/Math 276 (or equivalent) requiredMATH 227 (or equivalent) recommendedStatistics (only one of these or equivalent required)IMSE 317STAT 325MATH 425Deficiencies in the prerequisites may be made up after entrance into the program. Students with such deficiencies must complete the missing prerequisite course(s) with a grade of “B” or better within the first two semesters after entering the program.Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Computer Systems Analysts Data Scientists Computer and Information Research Scientists Information Security Analysts Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median Salary Data Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer and Information Research Scientists $140,910 Median Salary Computer and Information Research Scientists Employment of computer and information research scientists is projected to grow 20 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,200 openings for computer and information research scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Related Programs Computer and Information Science, MS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Data Science, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit