Healthcare Administration and Leadership, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Healthcare Administration and Leadership, MS CEHHS Office for Student Success draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5090(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Boost Your Healthcare CareerStarting Fall 2025, this program will be fully online.Whether you’re currently a healthcare leader or you aspire to become one, you can advance your career with the skills you’ll learn in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our experienced faculty will teach you how to apply a range of individual and team leadership theories and skills, increase health equity, apply basic business strategies to health care, and lead change using analytic strategies and tools.Where an MS in Healthcare Administration and Leadership Will Take YouStarting Fall 2025, this program will be fully online.Your degree will prepare you for leadership roles in hospitals, group physician practices, clinics, mental health organizations, rehabilitation centers, educational organizations, health insurance companies, and government agencies. Program Details What You’ll Study The 36-credit degree has 24 credits of required core courses. They cover subjects like medical information systems, financing health and medical systems, fundraising and grant writing, healthcare law, and healthcare economics, among others. You choose three electives for nine credits, and complete the degree with a three-credit internship or graduate research project. Explore Program Requirements Out of State Tuition Reduction Because the master’s program is entirely online, students who aren’t Michigan residents qualify for the non-resident online tuition rate. This rate is about 30 percent lower than the normal non-resident rate, saving you nearly $1,500 per three-credit course or almost $15,000 overall Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we emphasize hands-on learning in the classroom using real-world scenarios. Your program also includes a three-credit internship where you can put what you’ve learned into practice. Admission Requirements A GRE is not required. You must submit the following with your application:Earned Bachelor's Degree from an accredited institution3.0 GPA or higher on submitted transcriptsTwo professional letters of recommendationStatement of purpose Fully Online This program is only offered in a fully online format and meets the same standard of quality and rigor as our on-campus programs. In addition, diplomas and transcripts for online programs are identical to those for on-campus programs. For the most part, classes are offered asynchronously and have regularly set deadlines for assignments, tests, exams, discussions, and other course requirements. Students engage in online classes through participation in discussions, assignments, projects, and modules that can contain videos, presentations, podcasts and other multimedia elements. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines This program will only admit students starting in the Fall term. Priority application deadline is March 15 and the hard application deadline is May 15. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Medical and Health Services Managers Social and Community Service Managers Administrative Services and Facilities Managers Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Compensation and Benefits Managers Medical and Health Services Managers $117,960 Median SalaryMedical and Health Services Managers Employment of medical and health services managers is projected to grow 23 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 62,100 openings for medical and health services managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social and Community Service Managers $78,240 Median SalarySocial and Community Service Managers Employment of social and community service managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,600 openings for social and community service managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Administrative Services and Facilities Managers $106,880 Median SalaryAdministrative Services and Facilities Managers Overall employment of administrative services and facilities managers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for administrative services and facilities managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers $159,660 Median SalaryAdvertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Overall employment of advertising, promotions, and marketing managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 36,400 openings for advertising, promotions, and marketing managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Compensation and Benefits Managers $140,360 Median SalaryCompensation and Benefits Managers Employment of compensation and benefits managers is projected to show little or no change from 2024 to 2034.Despite limited employment growth, about 1,500 openings for compensation and benefits managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit