Biological Sciences, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Biological Sciences, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Discover the Science of LifeBiology is an extensive field that includes biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, microbiology, genetics, anatomy, physiology, embryology, ecology, evolution, field biology, and animal behavior. At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, our expert faculty and extensive network of laboratories and science learning centers ensure that as a biology major you’ll receive broad training that opens a world of opportunities.Whether you plan to seek a biology-related job immediately after graduation, to pursue graduate study in biology or any of the health professions, or to get a secondary teaching certificate in biology, our program will prepare you to pursue your dreams.Where a Biological Sciences Degree Will Take YouOur biological sciences degree is designed to prepare you for success in a range of fields. Our recent graduates hold jobs like division director, environmental scientist, epidemiologist, faculty member, forensic scientist, laboratory manager, microbiologist, science teacher, senior clinical research associate, wildlife habitat biologist, and others for a variety of employers. Some of these include the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, U.S. Agency for International Development, EnviroSolutions, San Francisco Department of Public Health, Oakland Community College, Michigan State Police, Wayne State University, Elba Laboratories, National Park Service, Dearborn Public Schools, Merck, and DTE Energy.In addition, our students are regularly accepted into graduate programs in the sciences and professional preparation programs for physicians, physician assistants, dentists, pharmacists, and veterinarians. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists Microbiologists Biochemists and Biophysicists Environmental Scientists and Specialists Medical Scientists Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists $72,860 Median SalaryZoologists and Wildlife Biologists Employment of zoologists and wildlife biologists is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 1,400 openings for zoologists and wildlife biologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Microbiologists $87,330 Median SalaryMicrobiologists Employment of microbiologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,700 openings for microbiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists (Ph.D. usually required) Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Environmental Scientists and Specialists $80,060 Median SalaryEnvironmental Scientists and Specialists Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 8,500 openings for environmental scientists and specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Medical Scientists $100,590 Median SalaryMedical Scientists (Ph.D. or medical degree usually required) Employment of medical scientists is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for medical scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study The biology curriculum includes a wide range of introductory and specialized courses to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the field. In addition to general education classes, for your degree you’ll take:Two semesters each of mathematics and statistics, general chemistry, organic chemistry, and physicsTwo semesters of introductory biologyUpper-level biology coursework in genetics, ecology, evolution, physiology, and cell and molecular biologyAdditional upper-level coursework in biology, including a capstone experience during your senior year Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Our extensive network of laboratories and learning centers ensures you’ll have plenty of opportunities to take what you've learned in the classroom and apply it to real-world scenarios. Our facilities include 10 teaching laboratories, 18 research laboratories, the Science Learning Center, the Environmental Interpretive Center, the 120-acre Environmental Study Area, a greenhouse, and many others.Other hands-on experiences are available working as a part-time consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center, working as a laboratory preparation assistant, and assisting faculty with research. In addition to gaining laboratory and data analysis experience, students who engage in research can present their findings at department, local, and national conferences. Students also have been co-authors on published manuscripts with UM-Dearborn faculty.Finally, some great real-world opportunities are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in biological sciences (BIOL). All upper-level BIOL courses include prerequisites in biology and some include prerequisites in chemistry or mathematics.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee One aspect of Biology that intrigues me is the unknown factor. AMAN PATEL, BIOLOGY MAJOR How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, we strongly encourage students to get involved both on and off campus. From joining student organizations and participating in undergraduate research projects to volunteering within the community, you'll find numerous opportunities to enrich your academic journey and prepare for your future career.Some of the student organizations that may especially interest you include the Biology Club, Biochemistry Society, Minority Association of Pre-Med Students, Phi Delta Epsilon co-ed pre-med fraternity, Pre-Dental Association, Pre-Optometry Club, Pre-PA Association, Pre-Professional Health Society, Public Health Society, Restoration Ecology Club, and the Undergraduate Society of Psychology and Neuroscience. Related Programs Microbiology, BS Biochemistry, BS Environmental Science, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit