Journalism and Media Production, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Journalism and Media Production, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Learn How to Tell the StoryWith the explosion in platforms and media for telling stories, working in journalism and media production today couldn’t be more exciting. Our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn covers it all, from print journalism to podcasting to feature films, teaching you everything from the basics to advanced techniques for communicating your story. Your classes are taught by industry experts, including Pulitzer Prize winners and Telly Award recipients, and you can get hands-on experience at UM-Dearborn’s student newspaper and radio station.You’ll develop skills in research, writing, analysis, creativity, and problem solving. And you’ll have full access to a wide range of current and emerging technologies.Where a Journalism and Media Production Degree Will Take YouOur graduates have accepted positions at the Detroit Free Press, WXYZ-TV, Hour Media, WDIV/Click on Detroit, 9&10 News, WWJ Newsradio, the Holland Sentinel, Walt Disney World, WebMD, and Strive Creative, among others. They’ve also gone on to graduate school in a variety of fields. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Film and Video Editors and Camera Operators Broadcast, Sound, and Video Technicians Writers and Authors Public Relations Specialists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Film and Video Editors and Camera Operators $70,570 Median SalaryFilm and Video Editors and Camera Operators Overall employment of film and video editors and camera operators is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 6,400 openings for film and video editors and camera operators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Broadcast, Sound, and Video Technicians $56,600 Median SalaryBroadcast, Sound, and Video Technicians Overall employment of broadcast, sound, and video technicians is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 11,100 openings for broadcast, sound, and video technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Writers and Authors $72,270 Median SalaryWriters and Authors Employment of writers and authors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 13,400 openings for writers and authors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Our program is dedicated to storytelling–its forms, techniques, and technologies. You’ll learn about genres such as news reporting, feature writing, photojournalism, narrative journalism/creative nonfiction, documentary films, and feature films. All of your courses will stress the underlying research and writing skills that connect us as journalists, documentarians, and filmmakers. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain One of the defining features of the program is our commitment to experiential education. All majors are required to participate in an internship, co-op, or senior thesis, which gives you a chance to apply what you have learned in real-world contexts.You’ll get lots of experiential training in the CASL Media Studio, which includes a full-service TV studio, an audio production studio, and several suites of Mac workstations with Adobe Creative Cloud software. More hands-on experiences are available at the UM-Dearborn student newspaper and radio station.Students will:Demonstrate ability to gather, evaluate, convey, and distribute information for specific audiences and outcomesDevelop and produce multiple forms of media, including print, audio, and videoApply research skills in gathering and critically evaluating media texts from multiple perspectivesDemonstrate versatility in multiple approaches to narrative expression, both fiction and nonfictionImplement creative problem-solving skills within an ethical frameworkApply theory to practice in a project-based or team environmentRecognize and respect the role of diverse perspectives, identities, backgrounds, approaches, and abilities in the production and reception of media texts, including one’s own positionality Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration in journalism (JASS) consists of 16 credits of upper-level courses. Two courses are required, and you choose the other two from a group of approved options.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee This program is really about harnessing your creative energies in order to make something that reflects who you are. Adam Sekuler, Assistant Professor of Journalism and Media Production How to Get Involved You can write for the Michigan Journal, the daily student newspaper at UM-Dearborn; host a program on WUMD College Radio; create original films as a member of the Campus Video Network; help fellow students with writing assignments as a paid tutor at the Writing Center; assist with community outreach activities; check out any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus; and much more. Related Programs Communication, BA Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Media Production, Certificate Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit