Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Find Your Program Begin Your Path To A Career With A Purpose At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll have more than 200 options for majors, minors, graduate programs and certificates to pursue.Whatever path you choose, you will gain real-world experience through practice-based learning, along with meaningful research, internship and co-op opportunities. At UM-Dearborn, you aren’t just launching a career-you’re launching a career to make a difference personally and professionally. Filter Programs Search by Keyword Program Type Major Minor 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Master's Degree Specialist Degree Doctoral Degree Certificate Training STEM College College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, and Human Services College of Engineering and Computer Science Areas of Interest Business & Finance Education Engineering & Design Healthcare & Social Services History & Society International Studies Language & Communication Math & Computing Natural & Physical Sciences Degree Level Undergraduate Graduate Available Online Online Showing 10 out of 50 ResultsShowing 50 out of 50 Results African and African American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online African and African American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Our certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides an introduction to the rich histories, struggles, and contributions of Africans and African descendants in the Diaspora. As you delve into the dynamic dialogue between African and global history, you’ll unlock potential pathways to creating meaningful changes. Arab American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Arab American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Courses in this interdisciplinary certificate program help students understand how immigration, racism and discrimination, gender and sexuality, class, ethnicity, culture, and religion intersect in the lives of Arab and Muslim Americans. Arabic Translation, Certificate Certificate Online Arabic Translation, Certificate Certificate Online We’ve designed the 12-credit certificate program to help non-native speakers, heritage learners, and native speakers improve their command of the standard Arabic language and dialects to the professional level required for translating. Automotive Materials and Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Materials and Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Engineers who can design lightweight, fuel-efficient vehicles are in great demand. We’ve created the graduate certificate in automotive materials and design for automotive engineers who want to learn about lightweight materials, vehicle dynamics and control, advances in ergonomic and structural design, and advanced manufacturing techniques. Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Many consumers want vehicles that ride quietly, but designing them presents a host of engineering challenges. You’ll learn about the connection between automotive structural design and noise, vibration, and harshness (NVH) in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Automotive Powertrains, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Powertrains, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online High-efficiency powertrains are the focus of this graduate certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The certificate program, which is designed for automotive engineers, covers recent advances in engines, transmissions, electric and hybrid vehicles, and emission controls. Community-Based Leadership and Development, Certificate Certificate Online Community-Based Leadership and Development, Certificate Certificate Online The certificate focuses on courses with service-learning projects or collaborative research with community organizations, giving you practical experience in local efforts, exposure to different types of community organizations, and opportunities to apply concepts and theories from your courses. Comparative Literature, Certificate Certificate Online Comparative Literature, Certificate Certificate Online Dive into outstanding literature from around the world in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll read world-class texts in translation, deepening your understanding of different nations and cultures. Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Control systems are the heart of any vehicle system, whether they’re climate controls, cruise controls, engine controls, pollution controls, or others. Designing control systems for practical applications requires a thorough understanding of physical models of the process, mathematical modeling techniques, transient behavior of systems, and dynamic characteristics of a phy Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Certificate Online Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Certificate Online Unleash your creative potential and transform your passion for photography and design into a professional credential with our certificate in digital photography and design at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our program, which requires 12 to 14 credits, nurtures your personal expression while also equipping you with comprehensive creative and technical skills. Electric Energy Technology, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electric Energy Technology, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Theories and technologies in electric energy and related applications are the focus of the electric energy technology graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll learn about power electronics, power system analysis, electric drives, motor drives, electric aspects of hybrid vehicles, and practical aspects of designing power electronics device Electrical System Analytics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Analytics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Strengthen your skills in power system planning and operation with the graduate certificate in electrical system analytics from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses in the nine-credit program will introduce you to the foundations, emerging practices, and real-world applications of data analytics and machine learning for power systems. Electrical System Equipment, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Equipment, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Courses for this graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn provide practical knowledge of electrical system equipment and the fundamentals of power electronics and machines. The certificate program offers an ideal opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a career shift. Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Explore electrical power system planning and operation in this graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Some of the topics covered include generation planning, transmission planning, and distribution planning. This is an excellent opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a car Electrical System Protection and Control, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Protection and Control, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online One of the most critical issues facing our nation is protecting the electrical grid and major electricity users from cyberattacks. This graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn focuses on protecting electrical systems from faults, communication models for monitoring and controlling electrical systems, and cybersecurity for the smart grid. The pro Energy and Sustainability, Certificate Certificate Online Energy and Sustainability, Certificate Certificate Online Energy efficiency and sustainability are critically important in all applications of mechanical engineering. The energy and sustainability certificate introduces you to some of the key issues and technologies involved in creating a brighter, greener world. Engineering Design, Certificate Certificate Online Engineering Design, Certificate Certificate Online With many courses focused on automotive engineering, the certificate in engineering design at the University of Michigan-Dearborn offers opportunities for a wide variety of students. It combines principles of engineering science with methods of design to find solutions to practical engineering problems. Engineering Mechanics, Certificate Certificate Online Engineering Mechanics, Certificate Certificate Online The engineering mechanics certificate combines the principles of structural mechanics, dynamics, and vibration with methods of computational analysis and modern applications in the automotive industry and others. Engineering of Electrified Vehicular Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Engineering of Electrified Vehicular Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Explore the fundamental principles of vehicle electrification and their application to emerging automotive technologies in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. In four courses, you’ll learn about automotive powertrains, vehicle electronics, battery technology, electric and hybrid drives, and much more. English Language and Linguistics, Certificate Certificate Online English Language and Linguistics, Certificate Certificate Online The certificate is a valuable addition to any degree, offering competitive marketability upon graduation. Our graduates work in various professions, from business to academia, leveraging their linguistic skills and knowledge to succeed in their chosen fields. Fiction Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Fiction Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Always wanted to try your hand at writing fiction but weren’t sure where to start? Our fiction writing certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to successfully complete your own work of fiction, all under the guidance of our expert instructors and within a supportive workshop environment. Food Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Food Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Our food studies certificate at the UM-Dearborn prepares you to live and work in a world where food is central to human health and well-being, cultural identity, public policy, and ecological sustainability. Food is a powerful force given that much of our lives are structured in and around obtaining, preparing, and sharing food with family, friends, and our community. French Translation, Certificate Certificate Online French Translation, Certificate Certificate Online You’ll explore the art of French translation from multiple perspectives: cultural, theoretical, interdisciplinary, and practical. You’ll also learn how to navigate the complexities of translating cultural concepts and idiomatic expressions that differ between languages while engaging with a rich variety of genres. Game Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Game Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online If you have an undergraduate degree in computer science or computer engineering, the graduate certificate in game design from UM-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to pursue a career creating computer games. You’ll learn some theory, but the program’s focus is on hands-on development of computer games. Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Certificate Online Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Certificate Online Because of the broad use of geospatial technology across a variety of disciplines and fields, students with diverse backgrounds and interests can increase their marketability with a certificate in geospatial analysis and mapping from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Global Engagement, Certificate Certificate Online Global Engagement, Certificate Certificate Online As the world continues becoming more connected every day, diverse cultures, economies, and political systems interact in complex and sometimes unpredicted ways. Our interdisciplinary certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn helps you develop intercultural competence and an understanding of global systems. Health Communication, Certificate Certificate Online Health Communication, Certificate Certificate Online Our health communication certificate at UM-Dearborn is designed to equip you with marketable skills that make you both a better producer and consumer of health and wellness messages. Besides building a strong foundation for a successful career in health communication and other health-related fields, the certificate will make you a more effective patient and caregiver. Industrial Mechatronics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Industrial Mechatronics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Industrial mechatronics is a versatile field that merges mechanical, electrical, and computer engineering through intelligent design. At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, we offer a rich, interdisciplinary curriculum for this graduate certificate that delves into both the traditional foundations and the emerging areas of this field. Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online This graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn introduces the core concepts of intelligent systems and a broad range of techniques for building, testing, and evaluating intelligent systems. It includes plenty of hands-on practice so you can apply your learning to real-world problems. LGBTQ Studies, Certificate Certificate Online LGBTQ Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Our interdisciplinary LGBTQ studies certificate at UM-Dearborn helps you understand how social, cultural, legal, and political factors influence the lives of LGBTQ individuals, families, and communities. Materials and Manufacturing, Certificate Certificate Online Materials and Manufacturing, Certificate Certificate Online Engineering materials and manufacturing are important components of mechanical engineering. This certificate program deepens your understanding of the field and provides a useful credential. It combines theoretical knowledge with practical application, preparing you for a world that’s increasingly reliant on the interplay between manufacturing and design. Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Learn about the impact of processing variables on the properties of final products and how to make informed decisions about materials selection and product design in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The program also enables you to explore composites, lightweight materials, and the digital manufacturing landscape. Mechatronics and Robotics, Certificate Certificate Online Mechatronics and Robotics, Certificate Certificate Online The field of mechatronics and robotics has become increasingly significant as industries dive into automation and smart technology. Our undergraduate certificate program introduces you to this rapidly evolving field, blending mechanical and electrical engineering to deliver a comprehensive understanding of innovative technological systems. Media Production, Certificate Certificate Online Media Production, Certificate Certificate Online Expand your technical skills and develop proficiency in storytelling, teamwork, and communication with our media production certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Certificate Certificate Online Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Certificate Certificate Online Manufacturing, testing for purity and safety, and research on medicinal and aromatic plants is a growing field–one where you can excel with our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Middle East Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Middle East Studies, Certificate Certificate Online If you have a basic background in the history and culture of the Middle East, you can increase your knowledge in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The certificate is a valuable credential if you plan a career in international diplomacy, social services, academia, journalism, business, law, or other fields. Modeling and Simulations in Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Modeling and Simulations in Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Unlock the power of numerical modeling and simulations in engineering with our graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our interdisciplinary curriculum is rich in both fundamental principles and modern applications. With no required core courses, you have the freedom to select courses that suit your personal interests and career goals. Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate program in plastic and composite materials bridges theory and practice in one of the fastest-growing areas of engineering. Our curriculum focuses on the design and manufacture of plastics and composite materials, particularly for automotive applications. Your courses will include practice-based learning about design, testing, manufacturing, and qua Practical Aspects of Computer Security, Certificate Certificate Online Practical Aspects of Computer Security, Certificate Certificate Online If you’d like an entry-level job in IT security, this certificate will provide you with the essential computer science concepts, basic security principles, and tools and experience you need. In the four-course, 15-credit certificate program you’ll learn about computer security principles, firewalls, malware, intrusion detection, physical security, wireless network security Professional Language and Cross-Cultural Competency, Certificate Certificate Online Professional Language and Cross-Cultural Competency, Certificate Certificate Online Boost your language skills in Arabic, French, or Spanish and your knowledge of business practices in the target culture with our 12-credit certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It will equip you with the cultural knowledge and linguistic skills necessary to excel in any professional setting and to thrive in our interconnected global economy. Program and Project Management, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Program and Project Management, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online From major corporations to tech start-ups, every industry needs skilled managers to ensure that programs and projects are completed on schedule, on budget, and with high-quality outcomes. Our graduate certificate in program and project management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is ideal for professionals who want to enhance their capabilities in managing complex pro Public Relations, Certificate, Minor/Concentration Minor, Certificate Online Public Relations, Certificate, Minor/Concentration Minor, Certificate Online Virtually every organization of any size–from businesses to nonprofits to government agencies–engages in public relations to shape its message and image. You can gain entry-level PR skills in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Software Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Software Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online The 12-credit Graduate Certificate in software engineering includes core engineering courses and electives that provide a graduate introduction to software engineering, software reliability, management, interface design, and case studies. Spanish for Health Care Professionals, Certificate Certificate Online Spanish for Health Care Professionals, Certificate Certificate Online Our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will teach you how to better serve Hispanic patients who otherwise may not get equal access to health care services due to linguistic and cultural barriers. All courses are offered online. Systems Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Systems Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate in systems engineering at UM-Dearborn is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for defining, planning, managing, and supporting large integrated systems. The program seeks to enhance both your technical competencies and your management skills. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Certificate Certificate Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Certificate Certificate Online With English spreading more and more around the world, there’s a growing demand for people who can teach English to non-native speakers. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Earn your certificate through this fully online program and be prepared to teach English locally, nationally, and globally. Vehicle Electronics and Controls, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Vehicle Electronics and Controls, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides an in-depth understanding of both analog and digital electronics integral to modern vehicles. You'll master the design of commonly used electrical circuits and gain hands-on experience with microprocessors. Our program includes practical laboratory work and group design projects, offering hand Vehicles and Mobility, Certificate Certificate Online Vehicles and Mobility, Certificate Certificate Online Explore the cutting edge of next-generation transportation systems with a certificate in vehicles and mobility from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It will help prepare you for a career in automotive engineering, vehicle design, technology development, research, and other fields. Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Enhance your writing ability and earn an important credential on your transcript with a writing certificate from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. With the nationwide demand for employees who have strong writing skills, the certificate can help you stand out to employers no matter what field you pursue. Load All Programs Showing 10 out of 50 Results Showing 50 out of 50 Results Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Request Information Apply