Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Boost Your Prospects With a Dual DegreeIf you want to be a double threat on the job market when you graduate, our dual Bachelor of Science degree in Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance will make it happen.By taking a few additional credits, you can graduate with two B.S. degrees that put you in a great position for jobs in cybersecurity and other high-demand computer science fields. The dual degree requires 138 credits, just slightly more than the 120-123 credits required for each of the individual degrees. You can earn the additional credits by taking an extra class most semesters or extending your program by one semester.Where a Dual Degree Will Take YouMore than a single degree, a dual degree signals to employers that you work hard and are dedicated to your career, making you a very attractive job candidate. The cybersecurity training makes you valuable in a wide range of roles, since computer security concerns affect virtually every employer in the private and public sectors. And the dual degree gives you a great background for pursuing graduate work in computer science. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer Systems Analysts Information Security Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Web Developers and Digital Designers Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Web Developers and Digital Designers $95,380 Median SalaryWeb Developers and Digital Designers Overall employment of web developers and digital designers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for web developers and digital designers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Core courses cover topics like data structure and algorithm analysis, software engineering, web technology, and operating systems, among others. For the B.S. in Computer and Information Science, you must pursue the information systems concentration. It includes courses in operations research, information systems, software architecture, and programming languages.For the B.S. in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance degree, you choose one of two concentrations:The Cybersecurity and Privacy concentration has courses in subjects such as wireless and mobile security, computer and network security, data security and privacy, intelligence and homeland security, software security, and cryptography.The Digital Forensics concentration teaches you how to examine and analyze computer hard drives, storage devices, cell phones, tablets, and other electronic devices that may hold evidence admissible in a court of law. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain Practical knowledge is an integral part of our program. Through interactive labs and real-world projects, you'll gain firsthand experience in dealing with cyber threats and other issues. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of hands-on experiences. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BS Artificial Intelligence, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Related Programs Computer and Information Science, BS Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit