Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Middle East Studies, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Middle East Studies, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Meet the Faculty Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Expand Your Understanding of the Middle EastIf you have a basic background in the history and culture of the Middle East, you can increase your knowledge in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The certificate is a valuable credential if you plan a career in international diplomacy, social services, academia, journalism, business, law, or other fields.Our campus offers extensive resources for students studying the Middle East. They include the Center for Arab American Studies, the Armenian Research Center, and the Arabic Language and Culture Club. The surrounding community of Dearborn, which became the first Arab-majority city in the United States in 2023, also offers rich opportunities for engagement. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study For the 12-credit certificate, you choose four upper-level courses from dozens of options. They explore subjects like reporting on the Middle East, Islamic movements, women and Islam, Armenia, modern Middle East history, the U.S. in the Middle East, business language, Arabic translation, contemporary Arabic literature, Islam in the U.S., and Arab American history, among many others. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Middle East Studies, BA Arabic Studies, BA International Studies, BA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit