Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS CIS Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science 4+1 Accelerated Masters Options Gain Advanced Cybersecurity SkillsCybersecurity is one of the most exciting, challenging, and growing fields in computer science. Seemingly constant attacks on everything from banks to public water systems to Defense Department networks by hackers, cybercriminals, corporate spies, and state-sponsored groups have revealed how vulnerable the nation is in both the private and public sectors. Our Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance at the University of Michigan-Dearborn gives you the advanced knowledge and skills you need to mitigate and fight the threats–and to recover if defenses fail.You can take the courses completely on campus, fully online, or in a mix of both modes. All courses are scheduled during late afternoons or evenings, making them convenient for part-time study while working.Where a Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Degree Will Take YouThe urgent and growing need for cybersecurity professionals with advanced training means you’ll graduate with a wealth of career opportunities in industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental institutions. The job titles are as diverse as the opportunities: information security analyst, cybersecurity engineer, computer network architect, database administrator, and forensic science technician, among many others. You’ll also be equipped with the skills to keep learning and growing through continuing professional development. Program Details What You’ll Study Our 30-credit program offers a diverse range of courses that explore security and privacy in wireless networks, data mining, multimedia security and forensics, information science and ethics, web technology, software architecture and design patterns, artificial intelligence, data analytics for software engineering, cloud computing security, and intelligent vehicle systems, among many other topics.You are required to choose one of the three concentration areas:• Network & System Security• Data & Application Security• Software SecurityYou will also choice to do the coursework/project/thesis option. The program may be completed entirely on campus, entirely online, or through a combination of on-campus and online courses. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our internship, research, and study abroad programs offer a wealth of hands-on experiences for cybersecurity and information assurance students. You’ll have opportunities throughout the program for hands-on experiences while collaborating on practical projects and solving problems in real time. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in a Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics (STEM) field earned from an accredited program with an average of B (or better).Completion of one course in probability and statistics, one course in programming, and one course in calculus II. ProgrammingCIS 200/CIS 2001 (or equivalent) requiredCIS 350 (or equivalent) recommendedMathematicsMATH 116 (or equivalent) requiredMATH 215 (or equivalent) recommendedMATH 227 (or equivalent) recommendedStatistics (one of these or equivalent required)IMSE 317STAT 325MATH 425A course in calculus III and a course in linear algebra are recommended, but not required. GRE not required. Letters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Information Security Analysts Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Systems Analysts Database Administrators and Architects Computer Network Architects Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MS Computer and Information Science, PhD Related Programs Computer and Information Science, MS Artificial Intelligence, MS Data Science, MS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit