Academics Apply Now Breadcrumb Home Academics How will you make your mark? Chart the path toward your future at University of Michigan-Dearborn. Learning takes place in the classroom, in the community and in partnership with companies throughout the region. Our practice-based approach puts knowledge into action in the real world, creating a truly meaningful college experience that paves the way to a rewarding career. You will be prepared to make a difference wherever your dream takes you. Find Your Degree With more than 100 majors to choose from, you’ll discover a path that is perfectly tailored to you.Undecided? 20% of our incoming first-year students and 10% of transfer students are too. Explore services and options to decide your path to earn a Michigan degree.Looking for online options, we have that too. Many courses have online, flexible options and each college has programs that can be completed fully online. Search by keyword Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Practice-Based Learning Practice-based learning takes you beyond the classroom and gives you the skills you need to tackle real-world challenges — and find real-world solutions. Colleges Our four colleges offer 100+ undergraduate programs, 50+ graduate programs, and a wide variety of certificates to prepare you for the future you always envisioned. College of Arts, Sciences, & Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, & Human Services College of Engineering & Computer Science Academic Support Our dedicated Academic Advising teams are here to guide you through every step of your educational journey, from understanding program requirements to navigating campus resources. You can receive personalized support, including tutoring, writing assistance, and supplemental instruction, through our Academic Success services.For our graduate students, the Office of Graduate Studies offers comprehensive support, beginning with the admissions process and continuing through various student success initiatives. Beyond the Classroom Through Study Abroad, you can immerse yourself in world cultures while earning credit toward your degree credits for your degree. Experience+ is your gateway to personal and professional growth, connecting students to opportunities across campus, in the community and around the world. And when it’s time to transition from campus to career, our Career Services are your launchpad. Research At UM-Dearborn, you’ll have opportunities to engage in cutting-edge research projects. Whether you are just stepping foot on a college campus or pursuing your PhD, you’ll collaborate in small groups with professors who are renowned in their fields. Research opportunities often begin as early as your first year. Research News Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Request Information Apply