Breadcrumb Home Office of The Chancellor About Gabriella Scarlatta In this section In this section Office of the Chancellor Toggle Submenu About Gabriella Scarlatta Speeches, Commentary and Messages Campus Awards Citizens Advisory Committee National Advisory Council Past Chancellors Contact the Office of the Chancellor About Gabriella Scarlatta Interim Chancellor Gabriella Scarlatta Gabriella Scarlatta was named interim chancellor of UM-Dearborn in May 2025. She previously served as provost, starting in 2022, and interim provost from 2021-2022.Chancellor Scarlatta has also served as an associate dean of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters; chair of the Department of Language, Culture, and Communication and co-chair of the Department of Humanities. She was a member of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters’ Executive and Curriculum committees, and has served on the Faculty Senate. Chancellor Scarlatta teaches French literature and culture and has published several books and scholarly articles about the French and Italian Renaissance and early women writers. She joined the university in 1996 as an adjunct faculty member in the French Studies Department and became an assistant professor in 1998. She was promoted to professor of French, with tenure, in 2017. Chancellor Scarlatta received the Women’s and Gender Studies Outstanding Research Award in 2004 and 2013 and was an honoree of UM-Ann Arbor’s Council on Global Engagement in 2012. She received her BA and the maîtrise in modern languages from the Université de Savoie, Chambéry, France. She earned her MA in French and Italian Literatures and her PhD in Modern Languages from Wayne State University. Short Biography Gabriella Scarlatta was named interim chancellor of UM-Dearborn in May 2025. She previously served as the university’s provost.Chancellor Scarlatta has also served as an associate dean of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters; chair of the Department of Language, Culture, and Communication and co-chair of the Department of Humanities. Chancellor Scarlatta teaches French literature and culture and has published several books and scholarly articles about the French and Italian Renaissance and early women writers. She received the Women’s and Gender Studies Outstanding Research Award in 2004 and 2013 and was an honoree of UM-Ann Arbor’s Council on Global Engagement in 2012. Office of the Chancellor 2140 - Social Sciences Building 4901 Evergreen Road Dearborn, MI 48128 View on Map Phone: 313-593-5500 [email protected]