Media Production, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Media Production, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Combine Theory With Hands-On LearningExpand your technical skills and develop proficiency in storytelling, teamwork, and communication with our media production certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. We combine hands-on training with courses that explore film and media concepts. When you complete the certificate, you’ll have the ability to effectively tell stories in a variety of forms, including narrative, documentary, and experimental.Much of your hands-on training will occur in the CASL Media Studio, which includes a full-service TV studio, an audio production studio, and several suites of Mac workstations with Adobe Creative Cloud software. You’ll also get to use our full complement of field production equipment, including video and DSLR cameras, audio recording units, lighting equipment, and support gear. You can get more hands-on experience by working at WUMD, the UM-Dearborn radio station. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Film and Video Editors and Camera Operators Producers and Directors Broadcast, Sound, and Video Technicians Special Effects Artists and Animators Art Directors Film and Video Editors and Camera Operators $70,570 Median SalaryFilm and Video Editors and Camera Operators Overall employment of film and video editors and camera operators is projected to grow 3 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 6,400 openings for film and video editors and camera operators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Producers and Directors $83,480 Median SalaryProducers and Directors Employment of producers and directors is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 12,800 openings for producers and directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Broadcast, Sound, and Video Technicians $56,600 Median SalaryBroadcast, Sound, and Video Technicians Overall employment of broadcast, sound, and video technicians is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 11,100 openings for broadcast, sound, and video technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Special Effects Artists and Animators $99,800 Median SalarySpecial Effects Artists and Animators Employment of special effects artists and animators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 5,000 openings for special effects artists and animators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Art Directors $111,040 Median SalaryArt Directors Employment of art directors is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 12,300 openings for art directors are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The 16-credit certificate consists of three required courses and one elective. The curriculum focuses not only on the production aspect of media but also on the importance of storytelling and the expressive potential of media tools. The fundamental and versatile skills you’ll develop will be valuable in a variety of careers, including journalism, marketing, web design, public relations, broadcasting, entrepreneurship, and nonprofit administration, among many others.Students will be able to:Effectively communicate to a targeted audience through digital multimedia technologyUnderstand the link between media production theory and practiceApply critical thinking and problem-solving skills to the production and reception of media texts. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements The program is open to all undergraduate students at UM-Dearborn as well as non-degree seeking students with or without college degrees. Related Programs Journalism and Media Production, BA Communication, BA Public Relations, Certificate, Minor/Concentration Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit