Computer and Information Science and Data Science, Dual BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer and Information Science and Data Science, Dual BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Computer and Information Science College of Engineering and Computer Science Upgrade Your Future With Dual DegreesImagine the opportunities if you graduated from the University of Michigan-Dearborn with TWO Bachelor of Science degrees in computer science! You can do just that with our dual Bachelor of Science degrees in Computer and Information Science and Data Science.By taking a few additional credits, you can earn these two valuable degrees at the same time. The dual degree requires 139 credits, just 19 more than the 120 credits required for each of the individual degrees. You can earn the additional credits by taking an extra course most semesters or slightly extending your program.Where a Dual Degree Will Take YouThe dual degree signals to potential employers not only that you possess extensive knowledge and skills, but that you’re a hard worker. It prepares you to excel in a huge variety of high-demand careers in business, industry, health care, government, and non-governmental organizations–or even to launch your own tech start-up. The dual degree also gives you a great background for pursuing graduate work in computer science. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer and Information Systems Managers Computer Systems Analysts Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Database Administrators and Architects Information Security Analysts Computer and Information Systems Managers $171,200 Median SalaryComputer and Information Systems Managers Employment of computer and information systems managers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 55,600 openings for computer and information systems managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Database Administrators and Architects $123,100 Median SalaryDatabase Administrators and Architects Overall employment of database administrators and architects is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for database administrators and architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Information Security Analysts $124,910 Median SalaryInformation Security Analysts Employment of information security analysts is projected to grow 29 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 16,000 openings for information security analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Your core courses will cover topics like data structure and algorithm analysis, software engineering, data science, massive data management, operating systems, information science and ethics, and applied regression analysis, among others. You also choose six elective courses from subjects like numerical analysis, matrix computation, natural language processing, text mining and information retrieval, wireless and mobile computer security, computer graphics, deep learning, edge computing, and other subjects. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our emphasis on practice-based learning means you’ll get hands-on experience in critical problem-solving and team projects. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of hands-on experiences. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BS Data Science, MS Computer and Information Science, MS Artificial Intelligence, MS Related Programs Computer and Information Science, BS Data Science, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit