Breadcrumb Home Campus Life Get Involved In this section In this section Campus Life Toggle Submenu Michigan Experience Get Involved Housing Health and Wellness Athletics Working and Studying Beyond Campus Get Involved Pursue your passion or explore new interests and ideas. There's no shortage of ways to get involved and explore your interests at UM-Dearborn. You can join a student organization, volunteer, get involved in a mentoring program or attend one of many campus traditions, like Homecoming or MLK Day of Service. Find your place at UM-Dearborn. Learn to lead. Learn to listen. We’re home to more than 130 student organizations, each one an opportunity to collaborate and connect. Students have established dozens of groups that run the gamut from the athletically inclined to the politically active. If you don’t find the one that’s right for you, you can always start your own. Student Organizations (VictorsLink) Fraternity-Sorority Life Sara Alqaragholy There are many ways that we can go out and make the world a better place. Sara Alqaragholy, ‘20 Urban and Regional Studies Make an impact in the community. You want to make your university, your community and your world a better place. At UM-Dearborn, we share your goals. A commitment to community impact is a part of our vision; it’s a part of who we are. Every year, our students, faculty and staff dedicate tens of thousands of hours of community engagement through classes, research, student activities and events, as well as personal projects. Collect food for the Student Food Pantry and help us continue ensuring that everyone on campus feels safe, welcome and well-supported. Raise local awareness of poverty and hunger by participating in a Poverty Simulation or an Oxfam America Hunger Banquet. Volunteer locally throughout the year on Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service or on Volunteer Service Days. Or you can join an Alternative Spring Break trip to provide a service to families elsewhere. Find your calling. Get involved. Together, we can make a difference. Civic Engagement Related Resources Office of Student Life University Unions and Events Campus Map Upcoming Events More Events Jan | Apr 29 - 26 Infinite Variety: Selections from the UM-Dearborn Glass Collection January 29, 2026 - April 26, 2026 5:00 pm -11:00 pm Apr 11 Spring Open House April 11, 2026 9:30 am -1:00 pm Apr 12 Theta Tau - NME Meeting April 12, 2026 7:00 pm -9:00 pm More Events