Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Education, Health, and Human Services Shape the Future of LearningDigital technology can dramatically improve learning experiences across a broad range of workplace settings–but only if it’s used correctly. You’ll learn about the latest, most effective methods for using digital tech in our instructional design and technology program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.Where a Degree in Instructional Design Will Take YouProfessionals in this rapidly evolving field go by a variety of titles: instructional designer, educational technologist, and eLearning developer are just a few examples. But whatever title job postings use, you’ll find opportunities in private industry, business, K-12 educational organizations, colleges and universities, corporate training firms, health care institutions and many other settings. You may become the go-to source for creating training materials, guide teams in adapting to new and emerging technologies, help your workplace get the most out of existing systems–and your responsibilities may constantly change to meet your employer’s needs. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Instructional Coordinator Training and Development Specialist Training and Development Manager Instructional Coordinator $74,720 Median SalaryInstructional Coordinator (master’s usually required) Employment of instructional coordinators is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 21,900 openings for instructional coordinators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Training and Development Specialist $65,850 Median SalaryTraining and Development Specialist Employment of training and development specialists is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 43,900 openings for training and development specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Training and Development Manager $127,090 Median SalaryTraining and Development Manager Employment of training and development managers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 3,800 openings for training and development managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Instructional design and learning technology professionals must have a diverse set of skills to excel. Your curriculum may include courses in emerging learning technologies, instructional design, online learning design, project management, professional communication, digital design, medical information systems, program evaluations, and video for social media, among other subjects.Besides classroom learning, you’ll also have opportunities throughout your program to engage in hands-on projects, internships and research, working closely alongside expert faculty and industry leaders. Explore Program Requirements Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) If you’d like to continue your studies beyond the BA, our 4+1 Accelerated Program lets you complete coursework for both the BA and a master’s degree in just five years. During your senior year, you take five graduate-level classes that we “double count” toward both your undergraduate and graduate degrees. This lets you complete the remaining requirements for the MA in instructional design and learning technologies in just one year. The master’s program is offered entirely online. Learn more about the 4+1 accelerated program. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved Opportunities to get involved at UM-Dearborn are boundless. You can become an online tutor, conduct research with our distinguished faculty, present at the Michigan Association for Computer Users in Learning conference, participate in campus educational outreach activities, join student organizations, and more. Programs Offered Beyond BA Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA Software Engineering, MS Related Programs Secondary Education, BA Software Engineering, BS Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit