Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS College of Business Graduate Office draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-4776(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources College of Business Class Profile Accreditation and Rankings Lead at the Intersection of Business, Data, and Intelligent SystemsThe MS in Information Systems has evolved into an enhanced MS in Business Analytics program with an Intelligent Systems focus. This reflects how modern organizations operate. Today’s leaders do more than analyze data. They understand the systems, technologies, and AI tools behind it.The STEM-designated MS in Business Analytics program prepares you to lead at the intersection of business, data, and intelligent systems.You will develop skills in analytics, artificial intelligence, and enterprise systems. You will learn to turn complex data into strategic decisions and understand the platforms that collect, store, and support it.These capabilities prepare you for roles that connect business strategy with data and technology.Start with the MBA, Build Analytics and Intelligent Systems ExpertiseThe MBA provides a strong foundation in business leadership and strategy. The MBA/MS in Information Systems dual degree is no longer available for new students.As an MBA student, you can take up to three courses from the MS in Business Analytics program as part of your Personalized Pathway electives. This allows you to build technical and analytical skills directly into your degree while maintaining flexibility.If you want deeper expertise, you can pursue a student-initiated dual degree with the MS in Business Analytics program after you begin your MBA. This option allows you to expand your knowledge in analytics and intelligent systems while keeping your path flexible at the start.Flexible Formats Designed for Working ProfessionalsBoth the MBA and MS in Business Analytics programs support full-time and part-time students from all academic backgrounds.MBA: Evening, online, or hybrid formatsMS in Business Analytics: Evening on-campus classes plus numerous online optionsThese formats give you the flexibility to advance your career while you earn your degree.Get a Head StartIf you are a current UM-Dearborn undergraduate student and have been admitted to a master’s program in business, you can take up to six graduate credits during your final undergraduate semester. This saves time and helps you move faster toward your degree. Related Programs Business Administration, MBA Business Analytics, MS Legacy MBA/MSIS Program Details What You'll Study The MBA/MSIS dual degree combines strategic business leadership with advanced technical training. You’ll build a foundation in finance, operations, marketing, and stakeholder-centric leadership, while also exploring business analytics and AI for decision-making.On the information systems side, you’ll go deeper into data management, systems development, cybersecurity, and applied AI—learning how to design, implement, and manage enterprise technologies that drive business innovation.The STEM-designated curriculum includes a hands-on capstone and flexible electives, helping you tailor the program to your career goals while preparing you to lead in tech-driven environments.The program consists of 19-23 courses, or 57-69 credits, depending on whether you’ve previously taken courses that qualify you to waive the MBA Foundation courses. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain The MBA/MSIS dual degree is deeply rooted in practice-based learning that prepares you to lead in data-driven, tech-enabled organizations. You’ll gain strategic, analytical, and leadership skills through case studies, real-world projects, and a hands-on capstone--while building technical expertise in systems development, data management, and cybersecurity.You’ll learn to apply AI in business contexts, make data-informed decisions, and align enterprise technology with strategic goals. Skills in Python programming, business analytics, and stakeholder-centric leadership will position you to lead digital transformation across industries.You’ll can also gain practical experience with real-time market data in the Bloomberg Finance Lab, collaborate with the iLabs research institute, and sharpen your communication skills through the Mitchell Business Communications Lab. Course Waivers, Exemptions and Transfer Credit Students may waive any of the MBA Core Courses except ISM 525 if they have equivalent courses in an AACSB business program completed within the previous 10 years and have earned at least a 3.2 post-60 GPA (that is, your GPA in courses taken after your first 60 undergraduate credit hours). Students who do not meet these criteria may request to have their courses evaluated for waiver credit at the time of admission. Students must have earned a B or better in equivalent courses as a part of a degree program completed within the previous 10 years.Previous coursework deemed substantially similar to ISM 525, or an undergraduate degree in Information Systems Management, may qualify to exempt students from the course. The exempt course must be replaced with another approved course in the MS-Information Systems degree program.Regardless of waiver and exemption credits granted, students must earn at least 57 credits in the dual-degree program.In addition, up to 9 transfer credits for equivalent graduate coursework can be applied to the degree if those credits have not previously been counted toward a degree.Exemptions, waivers and transfer credit are granted at the discretion of the program faculty. Admission Requirements This program welcomes students from all undergraduate majors and levels of work experience. We conduct a holistic review of each application, focusing on strong academic performance, quantitative skills, and a clear statement of purpose. Admission is selective. View our Class Profile for details.To be considered, you must have:A four-year U.S. bachelor's degree (or equivalent) from a regionally accredited institution.A grade of C or better in college algebra, trigonometry, pre-calculus, or higher. If you haven't met this requirement, we'll help you complete an appropriate course before or shortly after admission.