Health Communication, Certificate Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Health Communication, Certificate Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Increase Your Health Information SkillsOur health communication certificate at UM-Dearborn is designed to equip you with marketable skills that make you both a better producer and consumer of health and wellness messages. Besides building a strong foundation for a successful career in health communication and other health-related fields, the certificate will make you a more effective patient and caregiver.Given the wide range of knowledge and skills you’ll build during your studies, the health communication certificate will help prepare you for a variety of careers in health care. Whether you’re interested in shaping health attitudes and behaviors, preventing disease, promoting wellness, or crafting effective health messages for varied audiences, our program can help position you for success. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Health Education Specialists Public Relations Specialists Community Health Workers Registered Nurses Social Workers Health Education Specialists $63,000 Median SalaryHealth Education Specialists Employment of health education specialists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 7,900 openings for health education specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Public Relations Specialists $69,780 Median SalaryPublic Relations Specialists Employment of public relations specialists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 27,600 openings for public relations specialists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Community Health Workers $51,030 Median SalaryCommunity Health Workers Employment of community health workers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 7,800 openings for community health workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Registered Nurses $93,600 Median SalaryRegistered Nurses Employment of registered nurses is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 189,100 openings for registered nurses are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Social Workers $61,330 Median SalarySocial Workers Overall employment of social workers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 74,000 openings for social workers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Through case studies, guest speakers, media examples, and role-play, you’ll assess how different messages from various sources influence health beliefs and behaviors. You’ll learn how to critically evaluate communication quality in health and illness contexts. In addition, you’ll develop the ability to create effective oral, written, and digital health messages tailored to health care consumers, providers, and policymakers. Explore Program Requirements Ready to Apply? Tuition Tuition and fees for certificate programs are updated and approved each year in June. Review the current schedule to estimate your costs. Tuition and Fee Schedule How to Apply It is encouraged to apply as early as possible. To apply:Complete and submit an Online Non-Degree Application - select "Certificates".Submit official transcripts.Completed non-degree applications will be accepted until midnight the day prior to the start of classes each semester. How to Apply Admission Requirements This certificate is open to all majors across campus. Related Programs Health and Human Services, BS Communication, BA Marketing, BBA Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information How to Apply Plan a Visit