Mechanical Engineering, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Mechanical Engineering, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Mechanical Engineering CECS Scholarships College of Engineering and Computer Science Michigan Employs the Most Mechanical EngineersMechanical engineering isn’t just related to mechanical devices like engines and machine parts. Modern mechanical engineers are designers who create physical systems of all types and ensure that technology solutions are effective, reliable, and safe. If you’d like to join this booming field, a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from UM-Dearborn will provide the knowledge and skills you need to excel.More mechanical engineers are employed in Michigan than in any other state: 32,580 in May 2023. Michigan will have an average of 2,920 job openings for mechanical engineers every year through 2030, according to projections by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Those numbers, along with the 10 percent nationwide growth in mechanical engineering jobs projected through 2032, translate into opportunities for you.Want to expand your job opportunities even more? Consider pursuing dual BSE degrees in bioengineering and mechanical engineering or mechanical and manufacturing engineering, earning two degrees at the same time. The dual degrees require 143 credits–just 15 more than either degree requires alone.Where a Mechanical Engineering Degree Will Take YouMechanical engineers play crucial roles in a variety of industries: automotive, aerospace, energy, microchip manufacturing, biomedical devices, and many more. Recent mechanical engineering graduates from the University of Michigan-Dearborn have found professional employment in such prestigious companies as Boeing, Bosch, DTE Energy, General Motors, Ford, Magna, Mahle, Microsoft, Nissan, Space X, Stellantis, Tesla, Terumo, Toyota, U.S. Army GVSC, among others.Your undergraduate program also is excellent preparation to pursue a graduate degree, such as the master’s degree in mechanical engineering we offer at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Mechanical Engineers Aerospace Engineers Nuclear Engineers Materials Engineers Engineering Managers Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Nuclear Engineers $127,520 Median SalaryNuclear Engineers Employment of nuclear engineers is projected to decline 1 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 800 openings for nuclear engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Engineering Managers $167,740 Median SalaryEngineering Managers Employment of architectural and engineering managers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 14,500 openings for architectural and engineering managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Your comprehensive education will include a strong foundation in mathematics and natural sciences, as well as knowledge of concepts and applications of thermodynamics, statics, dynamics, fluid flows, heat transfer, stress and strength, materials science, manufacturing, machine design, instrumentation, control theory, and reliability. You’ll also develop skills in data analysis, programming, and principles and methods of engineering design.You may select elective courses following one of the program tracks: engineering mechanics, engineering design, energy and sustainability, materials and manufacturing, mechatronics and robotics, and vehicles and mobility. Undergraduate certificate credentials can be declared for each track. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain At UM-Dearborn, we believe in the power of applying knowledge in real-world contexts. That’s why in your courses you’ll learn from hands-on lab work and project-based design exercises, done individually and in teams.More opportunities for hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) Starting in Fall 2024, a new accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mechanical engineering in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to nine credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits in your mechanical engineering program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and meet other requirements. Accreditation The BSE in mechanical engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, www.abet.org, under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Mechanical and similarly named Engineering programs. Program Educational Objectives The Program Educational Objectives of the mechanical engineering program are that our graduates will: Be successfully employed in their discipline or a closely related field and contribute to the economy of the state and the nationContinue to enhance their knowledge base and skills, through graduate degrees or other professional development, to keep abreast of ongoing changes in technology and related disciplinesBe well rounded and well suited to work with colleagues and professionals with diverse backgrounds and cultures, and a wide range of competencies Student Outcomes To achieve the educational objectives, the graduates of the program will have:1. an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics2. an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors3. an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences4. an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts5. an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives6. an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions7. an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. Student Enrollment and Graduation Data For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BSE in Mechanical Engineering program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee UM-Dearborn | CECS | BSE in Mechanical Engineering How to Get Involved You can join the Pi Tau Sigma, Tau Beta Pi, student-led teams, such as Formula SAE, Formula SAE Electric, or MASA (the rocket club), other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Mechanical Engineering, MSE Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Related Programs Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Engineering Mathematics, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit