Computer Engineering, BSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Computer Engineering, BSE Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Learn With the Latest Hardware and SoftwareVenture into the world where hardware meets software with UM-Dearborn's computer engineering program. Computer engineers design a variety of systems to integrate how hardware such as electronic circuits and processors interact with software such as C++ or Java to control a system and process user inputs. This close synthesis of hardware and software is essential for critical applications like automotive systems, web and GPS-enabled devices, wireless communication, military systems, and medical imaging.The 125-credit curriculum offers courses in engineering fundamentals, theory, and design principles. But this is a hands-on program where you’ll get extensive experience with the latest hardware and software, including microprocessor and DSP-based development boards, system-on-a-chip technology, computer networks, and reconfigurable computing.Want to expand your job opportunities? Consider pursuing a dual BSE in electrical engineering and computer engineering. You can earn two bachelor’s degrees in 141 credits–just 16 credits more than for the computer engineering degree alone.Where a Computer Engineering Degree Will Take YouFrom designing special-purpose hardware for robotics and automobile ignition controls to creating software for machine learning and intelligence, the possibilities are virtually endless. Demand for computer engineers is skyrocketing, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. For many computer engineering careers, it projects job growth over the next decade of 10 percent to 30 percent–far above the average growth rate for all occupations of two percent to four percent. You’ll also be well prepared for graduate study, such as in our Master of Science in Engineering in computer engineering program at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Computer Hardware Engineers Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Network and Computer Systems Administrators Computer Network Architects Computer Systems Analysts Computer Hardware Engineers $155,020 Median SalaryComputer Hardware Engineers Employment of computer hardware engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,700 openings for computer hardware engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Software Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers $131,450 Median SalarySoftware Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers Overall employment of software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 129,200 openings for software developers, quality assurance analysts, and testers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Network and Computer Systems Administrators $96,800 Median SalaryNetwork and Computer Systems Administrators Employment of network and computer systems administrators is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 14,300 openings for network and computer systems administrators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Network Architects $130,390 Median SalaryComputer Network Architects Employment of computer network architects is projected to grow 12 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 11,200 openings for computer network architects are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Computer Systems Analysts $103,790 Median SalaryComputer Systems Analysts Employment of computer systems analysts is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 34,200 openings for computer systems analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study In your core courses, you’ll learn about topics like electronic circuits, microprocessors and embedded systems, computer architecture, computer networks and data communications, operating systems, and computer engineering design, among others.You get to choose four elective courses from more than two dozen options. They cover subjects such as robotic manipulation, digital forensics, cloud computing, machine learning, multimedia technologies, web engineering, electronic systems design, vehicular power systems and loads, automatic control systems, mobile robots, and much more.The Bachelor of Science in engineering in computer engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABT. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain You’ll learn by doing throughout your program, using the latest computer hardware and software. In your junior year, you’ll design and implement an instruction set and logic functions for a computer. And in your senior year, you’ll work on projects where you design a complete real-world system, from initial specifications to final design, testing, and documentation.Want more? We encourage you to undertake directed research projects supervised by faculty advisors, especially if you’re interested in pursuing graduate studies or want a research and development career.Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of real-world opportunities. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in Five Years (4+1) Starting in Fall 2024, a new accelerated 4+1 option lets you complete your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in computer engineering in just five years, saving time and money. Junior and senior students in the accelerated program can take up to nine credits of graduate courses, which are counted toward both degrees. To be eligible for the 4+1 option, you must have completed at least 60 undergraduate credits in your computer engineering program with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.2 and meet other requirements. Accreditation The BSE in Computer Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Electrical, Computer, Communications, Telecommunication(s) and Similarly Named Engineering Programs. Program Educational Objectives The graduates who receive the BS degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Michigan-Dearborn are expected to achieve within a few years of graduation the high professional, ethical, and societal goals demonstrated by accomplishing one or more of the objectives described below.Achieve professional growth in an engineering position in regional and national industries. Growth can be evidenced by promotions and appointment in the workplace (management positions, technical specialization), entrepreneurial activities, and consulting activities.Success in advanced engineering studies evidenced by enrollment in graduate courses, completion of graduate degree programs, presentations and publications at professional events, and awards or licenses associated with advanced studies.Realization of impactful achievements in societal roles demonstrated by attainment of community leadership roles, mentoring activities, civic outreach service, and active roles in professional societies. Student Outcomes To achieve the educational objectives, the graduates of the program will have:An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies Student Enrollment and Graduation Data For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BSE-Computer Engineering program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Upsilon Pi Epsilon, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science like the Association for Computing Machinery, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Computer Engineering, MSE Artificial Intelligence, MS Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Related Programs Electrical Engineering, BSE Robotics Engineering, BSE Software Engineering, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit