Arabic Studies, BA Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Arabic Studies, BA Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Language, Culture, and the Arts College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Explore the Arabic Language and CultureImmerse yourself in a rich and comprehensive exploration of Arabic language and culture in our bachelor’s degree program in Arabic studies. With Dearborn becoming the first Arab-majority city in the United States in 2023, there’s no better place than the University of Michigan-Dearborn to study the Arabic influence on world cultures and politics.In our program you’ll develop advanced skills in reading, writing, listening, and speaking in standard Arabic and various Arabic dialects. You’ll dive deep into centuries of Arabic culture, with particular emphasis on Arabic literature. And throughout your courses, there will be a strong focus on professional development.Where an Arabic Studies Degree Will Take YouYou’ll graduate with robust Arabic language skills and a deep understanding of Arabic culture that position you to excel in numerous fields. Whether you choose a career path in immigration, health care, the law, business, media, or another field, your skills will be highly sought after in today’s culturally rich global landscape. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Interpreters and Translators Political Scientists News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Interpreters and Translators $59,440 Median SalaryInterpreters and Translators Employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 6,900 openings for interpreters and translators are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Political Scientists $139,380 Median SalaryPolitical Scientists Employment of political scientists is projected to decline 3 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 500 openings for political scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists $60,280 Median SalaryNews Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists Employment of news analysts, reporters, and journalists is projected to decline 4 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 4,100 openings for news analysts, reporters, and journalists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The major includes a minimum of 24 credits in upper-level Arabic (ARBC) courses. Only one course is required. You choose the rest from groups of courses that cover subjects like business language, Arabic translation, Arabic cinema, the Quran, poetry by Arab women, contemporary Arabic literature, and the Arabic novel and short story in translation. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Our internship, research, and study abroad programs offer fabulous immersive experiences. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Requirements for Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration in Arabic studies consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses in Arabic (ARBC) that you choose. As a prerequisite, non-native speakers of Arabic must successfully complete ARBC 202: Intermediate Arabic II or demonstrate equivalent language proficiency.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Arabic Language and Culture Club, participate in events at the UM-Dearborn Center for Arab American Studies, teach Arabic in a local community center to apply what you’ve learned and give back, check out any of the more than 150 student clubs and organizations on campus, and much more. Related Programs Middle East Studies, BA International Studies, BA Arab American Studies, Certificate Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit