Strategic Planning GO BLUEprint for Success Breadcrumb Home Strategic Planning In this section In this section Strategic Planning Toggle Submenu Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan Toggle Submenu UG Graduation and Student Retention Summit Inspiration and Resources Strategic PlanOur strategic plan, The GO BLUEprint for Success, positions UM-Dearborn, Michigan’s Practice-Based University, for sustained success. Much work has gone into both our strategic plan and KPI development. Both serve as our compass as we make strategic decisions regarding the future of our great university. PrioritiesGrounded by our mission, The Go BLUEprint for Success is framed around four institutional priorities: Student Experience and Success Students are at the center of every idea. These ideas will help set the foundation to help ensure success while on campus and beyond. Holistic Excellence Amplify the university's current efforts and demonstrate our commitment to belonging and inclusion for all Faculty and Staff Excellence Faculty and staff are at the forefront of their careers. Nurturing expertise and talent will provide even more opportunities for student success. Economic Sustainability Financial stability will allow the university to realize its goals and strategically build and plan for its next 60 years. Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan Indicators The Strategic Enrollment Management (SEM) Plan builds on the GO BLUEPrint for Success, and focuses faculty, staff and administrators on executing initiatives to recruit, retain, and graduate students. Where we areDiscoveryGain campus support, share chancellor vision, set guiding principles, perform situational analysisIdeationWorking groups formed and ideas discussed, thought leader presentations, call for big ideasPlanningSelect final ideas, develop implementation teams, set team chargesImplementationExplore feasibility of ideas, set short, medium and long-term goals, establish timeline, identify resourcesCelebrateRealize campus change, communicate results, continue to refine and monitor progress Read the latest strategic planning updates 6/24/2024 The new comprehensive campus plan is really taking shape Moving everyone to the main campus, a major overhaul of outdoor spaces and on-site renewable energy are some of the notable features in UM-Dearborn’s comprehensive campus plan. ... 2/14/2024 Takeaways from the 2024 State of the University Why is it so tricky to put together the university’s annual budget? How are some of our new enrollment and retention efforts going so far? This year’s SOTU event featured some candid insights on these and other topics — plus a surprise appearance by the co... 4/3/2023 Lynn Perry Wooten visits UM-Dearborn for Thought Leaders Series The Simmons University president and former Ross School of Business professor shared her insights on the “she-cession” and best practices for supporting women in leadership.... 11/14/2022 A practical approach for addressing bias in artificial intelligence University of Pennsylvania Professor and U-M alum Desmond Patton says building more ethical technological systems starts with bringing more voices to the table....