Physics, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Physics, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Study Everything from Atoms to GalaxiesPhysics is the study of the most fundamental properties of matter and energy, and it helps us understand the universe in which we live. All the other science and engineering disciplines depend on the foundation of physics. Gain the knowledge and skills you need to enter this rewarding and challenging field with a bachelor’s degree in physics from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.With courses in computational physics, environmental physics, instrumentation for scientists, mechanics, optics, biological physics, astrophysics, quantum mechanics, atomic and nuclear physics, solid state physics, and other related topics, our program offers limitless opportunities for learning and research.Where a Physics Degree Will Take YouWe’ve designed the program to meet the needs of students with various objectives. It will prepare you for graduate studies at highly ranked universities, for a technical career immediately after graduation, for earning certification as a teacher, or for entering medical, dental or other professional schools. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Physicists and Astronomers Chemists and Materials Scientists Materials Engineers Aerospace Engineers Nuclear Engineers Physicists and Astronomers $166,290 Median SalaryPhysicists and Astronomers (Ph.D. usually required) Overall employment of physicists and astronomers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,800 openings for physicists and astronomers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Chemists and Materials Scientists $86,620 Median SalaryChemists and Materials Scientists Overall employment of chemists and materials scientists is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 7,000 openings for chemists and materials scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Materials Engineers $108,310 Median SalaryMaterials Engineers Employment of materials engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for materials engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Aerospace Engineers $134,830 Median SalaryAerospace Engineers Employment of aerospace engineers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 4,500 openings for aerospace engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Nuclear Engineers $127,520 Median SalaryNuclear Engineers Employment of nuclear engineers is projected to decline 1 percent from 2024 to 2034.Despite declining employment, about 800 openings for nuclear engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. All of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to other occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study The 120-credit degree includes 36 credits of pre-major courses in general physics, calculus, general chemistry, differential equations, and the natural sciences. After this foundation, majors take 31 credits of upper-level courses in physics, mathematics, astronomy, statistics, natural sciences, and computer science. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain After you complete a core curriculum in physics and mathematics and an introduction to the life and other physical sciences, you’ll have the opportunity to gain first-hand experience in basic and applied physics research. Our laboratories and other facilities ensure you have great tools for your research.Most advanced physics students also participate in the research projects of faculty members. Our physics faculty at UM-Dearborn concentrate their research in atomic physics, condensed matter physics, biophysics and astrophysics. Physics majors have worked in these areas and also on projects in the interdisciplinary application of physics in medicine and the environment.We’re also happy to help arrange other research opportunities for you during internships in hospital, industrial or government research facilities in the area.Yet more hands-on experiences are available working as a consultant helping other students in the Science Learning Center or as a laboratory preparation assistant. Requirements for the Minor/Concentration The minor or integrative studies concentration consists of 12 credits of upper-level courses you choose in physics (PHYS). All of these courses have prerequisites.Minors are not automatically granted. Once you finish the required courses, you must declare the minor on a form that you submit to the CASL Advising and Academic Success office. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee I love having something so complex be made so simple...this brought physics to my heart. ZAHRA, PHYSICS How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Physics Students, the Mathematics Club, the Association for Women in Mathematics, or more than 130 other student clubs and organizations on campus; work as a tutor in the Math Learning Center; attend Mathematics Colloquia sponsored by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics; and much more. Related Programs Mathematics, BA/BS Biochemistry, BS Environmental Science, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit