Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Boost Your Opportunities With Dual Engineering DegreesBoost your knowledge, skills, and job opportunities by pursuing two engineering degrees at once. Our dual degree program in industrial and systems engineering and manufacturing engineering at UM-Dearborn prepares you for the world of advanced manufacturing technology and systems improvement.By taking a few additional courses, you can graduate with two BSE degrees that put you in a great position for jobs in a variety of industrial and manufacturing environments. The dual degrees require 143 credits, just 15 more than you need for a single degree. You can earn the additional credits by taking an extra class most semesters or extending your studies by one semester.Where a Dual Engineering Degree Will Take YouArmed with two powerful engineering degrees, you’ll impress employers with your diligence and work ethic–and the tremendous combination of abilities you bring to the workplace. You’ll also have a great background for pursuing graduate studies in our master’s degree programs in industrial and systems engineering or manufacturing systems engineering at UM-Dearborn. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Industrial Engineers Health and Safety Engineers Operations Research Analysts Logisticians Industrial Production Managers Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Health and Safety Engineers $109,660 Median SalaryHealth and Safety Engineers Employment of health and safety engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,500 openings for health and safety engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Logisticians $80,880 Median SalaryLogisticians Employment of logisticians is projected to grow 17 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 26,400 openings for logisticians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Production Managers $121,440 Median SalaryIndustrial Production Managers Employment of industrial production managers is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 17,100 openings for industrial production managers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You’ll Study Aside from the Dearborn Discovery Core, which consists of general education classes, most of your curriculum is divided into two major groups. The prerequisite group includes courses in subjects like technical writing for engineers, calculus, linear algebra, chemistry, physics, engineering design, thermodynamics, computer programming for engineers, and electrical engineering, among others.The major core courses group covers topics like operations research, engineering probability and statistics, manufacturing processes, systems engineering, human factors and ergonomics, simulation in systems design, Six Sigma, lean manufacturing, industrial controls, and more. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your courses will include hands-on work in our state-of-the-art labs and other opportunities for practice-based learning. More hands-on experiences are available in our internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee How to Get Involved You can join the Society of Women Engineers, Alpha Pi Mu, the Institute of Industrial Engineers, other organizations aimed at students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, or general student organizations devoted to a wide range of interests and topics. And be sure to take part in the many student research opportunities sponsored by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Programs Offered Beyond BSE Engineering Management, MS Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Related Programs Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, Dual BSE Mechanical Engineering, BSE Electrical Engineering, BSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit