Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Find Your Program Begin Your Path To A Career With A Purpose At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, you’ll have more than 200 options for majors, minors, graduate programs and certificates to pursue.Whatever path you choose, you will gain real-world experience through practice-based learning, along with meaningful research, internship and co-op opportunities. At UM-Dearborn, you aren’t just launching a career-you’re launching a career to make a difference personally and professionally. Filter Programs Search by Keyword Program Type Major Minor 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Master's Degree Specialist Degree Doctoral Degree Certificate Training STEM College College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, and Human Services College of Engineering and Computer Science Areas of Interest Business & Finance Education Engineering & Design Healthcare & Social Services History & Society International Studies Language & Communication Math & Computing Natural & Physical Sciences Degree Level Undergraduate Graduate Available Online Online Showing 10 out of 209 ResultsShowing 209 out of 209 Results Accounting, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Accounting, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Whether you want to enter the corporate world or become a CPA, our accounting program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will lay the foundation for your future professional career. Accounting, MS Master's Degree Online Accounting, MS Master's Degree Online Our master’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn can help you launch a successful accounting career, regardless of your undergraduate major. Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Master's Degree Online Accounting/Finance, Dual MS Master's Degree Online No matter what you majored in as an undergraduate, our dual master’s degree program in accounting and finance at UM-Dearborn will help you develop specialized expertise that makes you stand out in the job market. Actuarial Mathematics, BA/BS Major, STEM Online Actuarial Mathematics, BA/BS Major, STEM Online Actuarial mathematics is an interdisciplinary subject that straddles business, economics, mathematics, and statistics to focus on managing risk. In our bachelor’s program at UM-Dearborn, you’ll develop analytic and reasoning skills, apply theories and models to measure and manage risk, and prepare for three of the professional exams required to obtain Associate credentials African and African American Studies, BA Major, Minor Online African and African American Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Study the history and cultural legacies of Africans and African Americans, the intellectual contributions of major African and African American scholars and cultural figures, and the crucial issues confronting African and African American communities throughout the world as a student in our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. African and African American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online African and African American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Our certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides an introduction to the rich histories, struggles, and contributions of Africans and African descendants in the Diaspora. As you delve into the dynamic dialogue between African and global history, you’ll unlock potential pathways to creating meaningful changes. Anthropology, BA Major, Minor Online Anthropology, BA Major, Minor Online Anthropology stands at the nexus of the sciences and humanities, integrating physical anthropology, archaeology, social and cultural anthropology, linguistic anthropology, and applied studies of human problems in an effort to explain both diversity and similarity in human behavior around the world. Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Applied and Computational Mathematics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Our master’s degree in applied and computational mathematics at the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you to work in a variety of industrial and scientific settings where you’ll help engineers, scientists, and managers solve complex problems using appropriate analytical models. Applied Art, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Applied Art, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Have you always been interested in creating art but didn’t know how to get started? Our 15-credit minor or integrative studies concentration in applied art lets you try your hand at a variety of artistic disciplines, whether for your personal pleasure or as part of preparation for your career. Applied Behavior Analysis, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Applied Behavior Analysis, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Applied behavior analysis is the scientific study of human behavior with the goal of helping individuals improve their social, educational, health, adaptive skills, and behavioral outcomes. Applied Statistics, BA/BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Applied Statistics, BA/BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Data drives decisions in today’s world, but data is useless unless it’s carefully collected, managed, analyzed, and interpreted. That’s where applied statistics comes in–a rapidly growing field you can prepare for with a bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Arab American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Arab American Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Courses in this interdisciplinary certificate program help students understand how immigration, racism and discrimination, gender and sexuality, class, ethnicity, culture, and religion intersect in the lives of Arab and Muslim Americans. Arab American Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Arab American Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The minor or integrative studies concentration in Arab American studies helps students understand: The unique circumstances surrounding the incorporation of Arab immigrants into American society. Arabic Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Arabic Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Immerse yourself in a rich and comprehensive exploration of Arabic language and culture in our bachelor’s degree program in Arabic studies. With Dearborn becoming the first Arab-majority city in the United States in 2023, there’s no better place than the University of Michigan-Dearborn to study the Arabic influence on world cultures and politics. Arabic Translation, Certificate Certificate Online Arabic Translation, Certificate Certificate Online We’ve designed the 12-credit certificate program to help non-native speakers, heritage learners, and native speakers improve their command of the standard Arabic language and dialects to the professional level required for translating. Art History and Museum Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Art History and Museum Studies, BA Major, Minor Online From painting to sculpture to architecture, the arts provide a visual record of the evolution of human societies over history. Students in the art history and museum studies program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn choose from a wide variety of courses in world art that include broad surveys and advanced studies of specific cultures, periods, media, and topics. Artificial Intelligence, Minor Minor Online Artificial Intelligence, Minor Minor Online No matter what major you’re pursuing, artificial intelligence will affect your career and your life. With this 26-credit minor consisting of seven courses, you will build a solid foundation of AI. Artificial Intelligence, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Artificial Intelligence, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Artificial intelligence is all over the news, and it’s one of the hottest fields in technology. If you aspire to do AI research and development or to have a leadership career in industry, our Master of Science in artificial intelligence program at UM-Dearborn will help get you there. Astronomy, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Astronomy, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The minor or integrative studies concentration in astronomy introduces you to the concepts and techniques of astronomy and astrophysics. While deepening your appreciation of the science of astronomy, it also helps prepare you for the workforce–particularly in STEM fields. Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Automotive and Mobility Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Dive into the fast-paced, constantly evolving world of the automotive industry with the Master of Science in Engineering in automotive and mobility systems engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our program equips you with the advanced technical expertise required as the industry shifts towards electric and autonomous vehicles and new mobility solutions. Our i Automotive Materials and Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Materials and Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Engineers who can design lightweight, fuel-efficient vehicles are in great demand. We’ve created the graduate certificate in automotive materials and design for automotive engineers who want to learn about lightweight materials, vehicle dynamics and control, advances in ergonomic and structural design, and advanced manufacturing techniques. Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Noise, Vibration and Harshness, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Many consumers want vehicles that ride quietly, but designing them presents a host of engineering challenges. You’ll learn about the connection between automotive structural design and noise, vibration, and harshness (NVH) in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Automotive Powertrains, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Automotive Powertrains, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online High-efficiency powertrains are the focus of this graduate certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The certificate program, which is designed for automotive engineers, covers recent advances in engines, transmissions, electric and hybrid vehicles, and emission controls. Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Automotive Systems and Mobility, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Take the driver's seat in your career by pursuing the Doctor of Engineering in automotive systems and mobility at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The program, which is designed for working professionals with at least two years of research and development experience in industry, enables students to conduct cutting-edge research using emerging technologies in the broad Behavioral and Biological Sciences, BS Major Online Behavioral and Biological Sciences, BS Major Online You’ll investigate the intersections between biochemistry, psychology, genetics, neurobiology, behavior, immunology, and anthropology, in addition to exploring ethical considerations and implications of research. Biochemistry, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Biochemistry, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Explore the intricate relationships at the intersection of biology and chemistry as a biochemistry major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. With courses in biological sciences, chemistry, mathematics, and physics, you’ll gain a deep understanding of the structural and functional relationships between the chemical constituents of cells and their roles in life processes Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Bioengineering and Mechanical Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Combine one of the newest, most specialized branches of engineering with one of the oldest and broadest by pursuing dual degrees in bioengineering and mechanical engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. By integrating bioengineering's cutting-edge applications and mechanical engineering's broad-based principles, this program provides you with a comprehensive kno Bioengineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Bioengineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Our undergraduate bioengineering program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn opens a world of opportunities to make a difference by improving the quality of human life. Bioengineering is a rapidly expanding multidisciplinary field that combines scientific principles from biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics with the best techniques from mechanical, electrical, c Bioengineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Bioengineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Bioengineering is a field that gives you the opportunity to profoundly impact society by improving the quality of human life. Bioengineers do everything from designing and building artificial organs to creating more efficient drug development technologies. Our master’s program in bioengineering at UM-Dearborn provides the advanced training you need to excel in this rapidly Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, our Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) program will equip you with the essential knowledge and skills you need through a carefully structured curriculum and support from experienced faculty. Biological Sciences, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Biological Sciences, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Biology is an extensive field that includes biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, microbiology, genetics, anatomy, physiology, embryology, ecology, evolution, field biology, and animal behavior. At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, our expert faculty and extensive network of laboratories and science learning centers ensure that as a biology major you’ll receive Birth to Kindergarten Education, BA Major Online Birth to Kindergarten Education, BA Major Online In this Bachelor of Arts program, you learn about child development, relationship building in early childhood, and special education. Business Administration, MBA Master's Degree Online Business Administration, MBA Master's Degree Online Get your MBA entirely online, in the evening on campus, or a combination of both in our nationally ranked program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Business Administration/ Information Systems, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Lead at the intersection of business, data, and intelligent systems at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The MBA offers flexible pathways, including coursework in analytics, AI, and enterprise systems through the MS in Business Analytics with an Intelligent Systems focus. Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Business Administration/Finance, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Become a dual threat on the job market with dual master’s degrees from the University of Michigan-Dearborn that combine a broad education in business management with the specialized training needed for success in a financial career. Business Administration/Industrial and Systems Engineering, Dual MBA/MSE Master's Degree Online Business Administration/Industrial and Systems Engineering, Dual MBA/MSE Master's Degree Online Complete a dual MBA/MSE in industrial and systems engineering entirely online at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The MSE is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, improving, and evaluating large integrated systems, while the MBA will equip you with broad management skills. Business Administration/Supply Chain Management, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Business Administration/Supply Chain Management, Dual MBA/MS Master's Degree Online Our dual MBA/MS in Supply Chain Management program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn equips you with broad managerial skills combined with specialized training in managing the organizations, people, technology, and resources that transform raw materials into deliverable products. Business Analytics, BBA Major, Minor, STEM Online Business Analytics, BBA Major, Minor, STEM Online Students gain the skills to create data-driven strategies by navigating the intersection of business, data, and technology, uncovering insights that make them valuable across sectors. Business Analytics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Business Analytics, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Businesses generate more data than ever, but turning that data into insight and better decisions remains a challenge. In the Business Analytics program, you’ll develop skills in data analysis, statistical modeling, and intelligent systems to transform data into actionable insight and support data-driven decision-making across organizations. Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CASL), BA Major Online Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CASL), BA Major Online A secondary major in business studies seamlessly combines the insights of a liberal arts and sciences education with a solid business foundation. It focuses on fostering both leadership and analytical skills, making it an especially good fit if your goal is a career in management. Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CEHHS), BA Major Online Business Studies as a Secondary Major (CEHHS), BA Major Online If you’re pursuing a bachelor’s degree in health and human services from UM-Dearborn’s College of Education, Health, and Human Services, adding business studies as a secondary major can significantly broaden your career options and enhance your job prospects. Chemistry, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Chemistry, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Investigate matter and the changes it can undergo as a chemistry major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our chemistry program, which is fully accredited by the American Chemical Society, explores the tools chemistry provides for understanding life processes, environmental issues, materials, and drug interactions. Children and Families, BA Major Online Children and Families, BA Major Online Families are one of the most important building blocks of our communities. You can make a positive impact on the lives of families while helping to build stronger communities with a Bachelor of Arts degree in children and families from University of Michigan-Dearborn. CIS Mathematics, BS Major Online CIS Mathematics, BS Major Online As an undergraduate UM-Dearborn student, you can pursue a concurrent degree in CIS mathematics if you’re pursuing one of the following majors: Computer and information science, Software engineering or Cybersecurity and information assurance Clinical Health Psychology, MS Master's Degree Online Clinical Health Psychology, MS Master's Degree Online Our Clinical Health Psychology master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is a two-year, 48-credit Specialization in Clinical Health Psychology. Communication, BA Major, Minor Online Communication, BA Major, Minor Online Communication is more than just speaking or writing. It's about making connections, understanding varying perspectives, and crafting messages that make an impact. Our program at the UM-Dearborn offers a variety of class exercises, assignments, and readings that help you blend theory with practical skills to communicate effectively in culturally diverse contexts. Community Change, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Community Change, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Whether you want to work on issues of poverty, race, and community-building professionally or as an engaged citizen, our 18-credit minor or integrative studies concentration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will provide the training you need to be effective. Community-Based Leadership and Development, Certificate Certificate Online Community-Based Leadership and Development, Certificate Certificate Online The certificate focuses on courses with service-learning projects or collaborative research with community organizations, giving you practical experience in local efforts, exposure to different types of community organizations, and opportunities to apply concepts and theories from your courses. Comparative Literature, Certificate Certificate Online Comparative Literature, Certificate Certificate Online Dive into outstanding literature from around the world in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll read world-class texts in translation, deepening your understanding of different nations and cultures. Comparative Literature, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Comparative Literature, Minor/Concentration Minor Online If you’d like to study literature from around the world in English translation, our minor or integrative studies concentration in comparative literature at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is for you. Besides reading great literature, you’ll research and analyze the cultural and historical contexts of the texts you study. Computer and Computational Mathematics, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Computer and Computational Mathematics, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The minor or integrative studies concentration in computer and computational mathematics places you at the interaction of mathematics and computer science. Your courses will help you develop skills in applying mathematical algorithms and scientific computing in real-world situations. Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Major, STEM Online Computer and Information Science and Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Dual BS Major, STEM Online If you want to be a double threat on the job market when you graduate, our dual Bachelor of Science degree in computer and information science and cybersecurity and information assurance will make it happen. Computer and Information Science and Data Science, Dual BS Major, STEM Online Computer and Information Science and Data Science, Dual BS Major, STEM Online Imagine the opportunities if you graduated from the University of Michigan-Dearborn with TWO Bachelor of Science degrees in computer science! You can do just that with our dual Bachelor of Science degrees in computer and information science and data science. Computer and Information Science, BS Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Computer and Information Science, BS Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Computer and information scientists combine their creativity with a deep knowledge of technology to solve practical challenges in all aspects of our lives. Our Bachelor of Science in computer and information science program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will immerse you in the field’s most exciting and dynamic disciplines. Computer and Information Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Computer and Information Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online The MS in computer and information science program at UM-Dearborn will enhance your theoretical knowledge and practical skills, providing new career opportunities or the ability to proceed to a PhD program. You choose many of your courses, giving you the flexibility to select those that best match your personal interests and professional goals. Computer and Information Science, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Computer and Information Science, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Our Ph.D. in computer and information science is a full-time, research-oriented degree for students interested in research and development careers in industry or academia. It equips you with the analytical skills needed to create innovative solutions for complex problems using high-quality translational research in computer and information science. Completing the CIS Ph.D. Computer Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Computer Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Venture into the world where hardware meets software with UM-Dearborn's computer engineering program. Computer engineers design a variety of systems to integrate how hardware such as electronic circuits and processors interact with software such as C++ or Java to control a system and process user inputs. This close synthesis of hardware and software is essential for critic Computer Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Computer Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online If you want advanced skills in designing, developing, and integrating computer hardware and software, you can get them in the computer engineering master’s program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses will provide plenty of hands-on experience with computers, high-performance workstations, and other microprocessor-based systems. Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Control Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Control systems are the heart of any vehicle system, whether they’re climate controls, cruise controls, engine controls, pollution controls, or others. Designing control systems for practical applications requires a thorough understanding of physical models of the process, mathematical modeling techniques, transient behavior of systems, and dynamic characteristics of a phy Criminology and Criminal Justice, BA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Criminology and Criminal Justice, BA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online How do we maintain social order and public safety in a constitutional democracy that’s committed to individual freedom, equality, and justice? You’ll explore these questions and many more in our criminology and criminal justice bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Criminology and Criminal Justice, MS Master's Degree Online Criminology and Criminal Justice, MS Master's Degree Online Our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn offers maximum flexibility for busy criminal justice professionals and others who want to boost their careers, as well as those who want to pursue doctoral studies or law school. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Major, STEM Online Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, BS Major, STEM Online Cyberattacks threaten everything from your online bank account to U.S. national security. Meanwhile, evidence from cell phones, computers, and other devices is increasingly important in prosecuting a host of crimes — if law enforcement can access the information. Our Bachelor of Science in cybersecurity and information assurance aims to train an elite, diverse group of stu Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Cybersecurity is one of the most exciting, challenging, and growing fields in computer science. Seemingly constant attacks on everything from banks to public water systems to Defense Department networks by hackers, cybercriminals, corporate spies, and state-sponsored groups have revealed how vulnerable the nation is in both the private and public sectors. Our Master of Sci Data Science, BS Major, STEM Online Data Science, BS Major, STEM Online Data drives decisions. Today, that’s true more than ever in business, industry, health care, government, nonprofit organizations, and elsewhere. But data is useless without someone to decipher what it means. That someone could be you with a Bachelor of Science in data science degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Data Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Data Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online If you need convincing that data science is a booming field, consider this statistic: employment of data scientists is projected to grow 35 percent over the coming decade, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. That compares to an average 3 percent growth for all occupations. Data Science/Economics, Dual BS Major Online Data Science/Economics, Dual BS Major Online If you want to crunch big data to help make big economic decisions, our dual undergraduate degrees in data science and economics at the University of Michigan-Dearborn are for you. DEI and the Workplace, Minor/Concentration Minor Online DEI and the Workplace, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Gain a deeper understanding of the attributes protected by equal employment opportunity laws such as race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and disability in this minor or integrative studies concentration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It emphasizes how to increase diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace and society. Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Certificate Online Digital Photography and Design, Certificate Certificate Online Unleash your creative potential and transform your passion for photography and design into a professional credential with our certificate in digital photography and design at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our program, which requires 12 to 14 credits, nurtures your personal expression while also equipping you with comprehensive creative and technical skills. Early Childhood Education, MA Master's Degree Online Early Childhood Education, MA Master's Degree Online Educators who work with young children can expand their skills and their career opportunities through the University of Michigan-Dearborn’s Master of Arts in Early Childhood Education, offering courses in-person, hybrid, and online. Economics and Computation, BS Major Online Economics and Computation, BS Major Online Prepare to thrive in the digital economy in our program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn that offers a cutting-edge combination of economics and computer science. Our program integrates economic reasoning, empirical data analysis, computer systems, programming, and web technology to prepare you for a variety of positions managing large, complex digital marketplaces. Economics, BA/BS Major, Minor Online Economics, BA/BS Major, Minor Online Economics is the study of how individuals, businesses, governments, and others choose to use resources. Ultimately, it’s about well-being: measuring it, learning how it may rise or fall, and evaluating the well-being of the rich, the poor, and those in between. Education Specialist Program, EdS Specialist Degree Online Education Specialist Program, EdS Specialist Degree Online Veteran educators dedicated to transforming education at the PK-12 and community college levels can gain the knowledge needed to lead those changes. Education, EdD Doctoral Degree Online Education, EdD Doctoral Degree Online This degree provides the knowledge, skills, and credentials you need to conduct education research, teach at a college or university, work in education policy making, fill a top administrative role in PK-12 or postsecondary education. Education, MA Master's Degree Online Education, MA Master's Degree Online Flexibility is the hallmark of our in-person, hybrid, and online Master of Arts in the Education program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Educational Leadership, MA Master's Degree Online Educational Leadership, MA Master's Degree Online If you want to join the ranks of principals and other PK-12 school administrators, this fully online program will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and competencies you need to succeed. Electric Energy Technology, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electric Energy Technology, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Theories and technologies in electric energy and related applications are the focus of the electric energy technology graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll learn about power electronics, power system analysis, electric drives, motor drives, electric aspects of hybrid vehicles, and practical aspects of designing power electronics device Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Working professionals who aspire to engage in applied and developmental research in the academic, industrial, or government sectors can gain the necessary knowledge and skills with a Doctor of Engineering in electrical and computer engineering degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, Dual BSE Major Online Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, Dual BSE Major Online Our dual BSE program offers a unique opportunity to gain proficiency in both electrical and computer engineering, broadening your skill set and enhancing your employment prospects. You earn two degrees at the same time with 141 credits–just 16 more than you need for a single degree. Electrical Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Electrical Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online That phone call from your friend? You can thank electrical engineers for making it possible. The cruise control on your car? Electrical engineers make it possible. The MRI machine that lets doctors see inside your brain after you take a bad fall? Electrical engineers again. Electrical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Electrical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online The 30-credit MSE in Electrical Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides specialized training in control systems, wireless networks, digital signal processing, embedded systems, image processing and pattern recognition. Electrical System Analytics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Analytics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Strengthen your skills in power system planning and operation with the graduate certificate in electrical system analytics from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Your courses in the nine-credit program will introduce you to the foundations, emerging practices, and real-world applications of data analytics and machine learning for power systems. Electrical System Equipment, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Equipment, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Courses for this graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn provide practical knowledge of electrical system equipment and the fundamentals of power electronics and machines. The certificate program offers an ideal opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a career shift. Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Planning, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Explore electrical power system planning and operation in this graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Some of the topics covered include generation planning, transmission planning, and distribution planning. This is an excellent opportunity for both young professionals looking to enhance their skills and experienced professionals seeking a car Electrical System Protection and Control, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Electrical System Protection and Control, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online One of the most critical issues facing our nation is protecting the electrical grid and major electricity users from cyberattacks. This graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn focuses on protecting electrical systems from faults, communication models for monitoring and controlling electrical systems, and cybersecurity for the smart grid. The pro Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Our PhD in Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering at UM-Dearborn is a full-time, research-based degree designed to train students to conduct original, high quality translational research and develop innovative technologies in the fields of electrical, electronics, and computer engineering. We’ve designed the program primarily for students interested in research Elementary Education, BA Major Online Elementary Education, BA Major Online Our Bachelor of Arts in elementary education program includes extensive experience in elementary classrooms, reflecting our belief that teaching is a craft perfected with practice. Energy and Sustainability, Certificate Certificate Online Energy and Sustainability, Certificate Certificate Online Energy efficiency and sustainability are critically important in all applications of mechanical engineering. The energy and sustainability certificate introduces you to some of the key issues and technologies involved in creating a brighter, greener world. Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online We’ve designed this 30-credit graduate program to meet the rising demand for engineers with in-depth knowledge about alternative and renewable energy production, utilization and demand. You’ll acquire systems-based knowledge in energy systems and sustainability through core and concentration courses. Engineering Design, Certificate Certificate Online Engineering Design, Certificate Certificate Online With many courses focused on automotive engineering, the certificate in engineering design at the University of Michigan-Dearborn offers opportunities for a wide variety of students. It combines principles of engineering science with methods of design to find solutions to practical engineering problems. Engineering Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Engineering Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Our master’s degree program at UM-Dearborn integrates the technical and management aspects of engineering, providing students with a holistic understanding of their roles as future engineering managers. Even if you have a graduate degree in engineering, you’ll find that pursuing the master’s in engineering management will give you even greater mastery of both technology an Engineering Mathematics, BSE Major, STEM Online Engineering Mathematics, BSE Major, STEM Online The engineering mathematics program gives you the opportunity to expand your knowledge in applied mathematics, which is essential in modern engineering. You must earn your principal engineering degree and the engineering mathematics degree at the same time. Engineering Mechanics, Certificate Certificate Online Engineering Mechanics, Certificate Certificate Online The engineering mechanics certificate combines the principles of structural mechanics, dynamics, and vibration with methods of computational analysis and modern applications in the automotive industry and others. Engineering of Electrified Vehicular Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Engineering of Electrified Vehicular Systems, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Explore the fundamental principles of vehicle electrification and their application to emerging automotive technologies in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. In four courses, you’ll learn about automotive powertrains, vehicle electronics, battery technology, electric and hybrid drives, and much more. English Language and Linguistics, Certificate Certificate Online English Language and Linguistics, Certificate Certificate Online The certificate is a valuable addition to any degree, offering competitive marketability upon graduation. Our graduates work in various professions, from business to academia, leveraging their linguistic skills and knowledge to succeed in their chosen fields. English, BA Major, Minor Online English, BA Major, Minor Online Our English program at UM-Dearborn is about the dynamic intersection of language, literature and society. It's about the power of words and the impact they have on our world. Entrepreneurship, Minor Minor Online Entrepreneurship, Minor Minor Online Entrepreneurship encompasses the research, planning, and strategies that are critical to start a new business, take over a family business, or quickly advance in your field. Environmental Science, BA/BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Environmental Science, BA/BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Explore environmental problems and solutions by incorporating perspectives from a variety of disciplines, including biology, chemistry, geological sciences, and the social sciences in our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Environmental Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Environmental Science, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Our graduate program in environmental science at UM-Dearborn is small, which ensures you receive lots of personal attention from our faculty and their help in crafting an individualized plan of study and research that meets your professional goals. Fiction Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Fiction Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Always wanted to try your hand at writing fiction but weren’t sure where to start? Our fiction writing certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to successfully complete your own work of fiction, all under the guidance of our expert instructors and within a supportive workshop environment. Film Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Film Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The interdisciplinary minor or integrative studies concentration in film studies takes a cross-cultural approach to the study and analysis of cinema. Finance, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Finance, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online A finance degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you for a wide variety of careers in business, government, and nonprofit organizations. Finance, MS Master's Degree Online Finance, MS Master's Degree Online Pursue a concentration in corporate finance or investments in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. In our comprehensive curriculum, you’ll learn everything from how to analyze and manage risk in a global setting to how to estimate the value of real or financial assets. Financial Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Financial Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online This program combines traditional finance with essential quantitative skills, data analytics, and computational techniques for data-driven decision-making in the financial sector. Financial Planning, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Financial Planning, Minor/Concentration Minor Online A finance planning minor from the University of Michigan-Dearborn prepares you for a wide variety of careers in business, government, and nonprofit organizations. Food Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Food Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Our food studies certificate at the UM-Dearborn prepares you to live and work in a world where food is central to human health and well-being, cultural identity, public policy, and ecological sustainability. Food is a powerful force given that much of our lives are structured in and around obtaining, preparing, and sharing food with family, friends, and our community. French Studies, BA Major, Minor Online French Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Our bachelor’s degree program in French studies gives you a thorough training in the language and culture of the 200 million people who live in France and other French-speaking countries in Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, and the Caribbean. French Translation, Certificate Certificate Online French Translation, Certificate Certificate Online You’ll explore the art of French translation from multiple perspectives: cultural, theoretical, interdisciplinary, and practical. You’ll also learn how to navigate the complexities of translating cultural concepts and idiomatic expressions that differ between languages while engaging with a rich variety of genres. Game Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Game Design, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online If you have an undergraduate degree in computer science or computer engineering, the graduate certificate in game design from UM-Dearborn can give you the knowledge and skills you need to pursue a career creating computer games. You’ll learn some theory, but the program’s focus is on hands-on development of computer games. Game Design, Minor Minor Online Game Design, Minor Minor Online Think you can design a better computer game than the stuff you’re playing? Adding a minor in game design to your major can give you the foundation you need for a future in computer gaming. Game Studies and Design, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Game Studies and Design, Minor/Concentration Minor Online This minor or integrative studies concentration focuses on the aesthetics of game design and user experience, helping you develop skills in digital art, audio, and script writing for game production. It complements technical courses in game design offered by the College of Engineering and Computer Science. General Business, BBA Major Online General Business, BBA Major Online Choose courses that interest you and will help you fulfill your professional dreams as a general business major at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Geography, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Geography, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Geography is an integrative discipline that focuses on the interrelationships between the physical and human environments. This focus means geographers bring a unique perspective to the study of pressing social issues such as natural disaster relief, urban sprawl, and climate change. Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Certificate Online Geospatial Analysis and Mapping, Certificate Certificate Online Because of the broad use of geospatial technology across a variety of disciplines and fields, students with diverse backgrounds and interests can increase their marketability with a certificate in geospatial analysis and mapping from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Global Cultures, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Global Cultures, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The minor or integrative studies concentration in global cultures is designed to help you understand global dynamics and cultures in different world regions, preparing you for a world that’s increasingly diverse, international and interdependent. Global Engagement, Certificate Certificate Online Global Engagement, Certificate Certificate Online As the world continues becoming more connected every day, diverse cultures, economies, and political systems interact in complex and sometimes unpredicted ways. Our interdisciplinary certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn helps you develop intercultural competence and an understanding of global systems. Health and Human Services, BS Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Health and Human Services, BS Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online If you want to make a meaningful impact on the health and lives of people in your community a Bachelor of Science degree in health and human services from UM-Dearborn will open a huge range of meaningful job opportunities for you. Health Communication, Certificate Certificate Online Health Communication, Certificate Certificate Online Our health communication certificate at UM-Dearborn is designed to equip you with marketable skills that make you both a better producer and consumer of health and wellness messages. Besides building a strong foundation for a successful career in health communication and other health-related fields, the certificate will make you a more effective patient and caregiver. Healthcare Administration and Leadership, MS Master's Degree Online Healthcare Administration and Leadership, MS Master's Degree Online Whether you’re currently a healthcare leader or you aspire to become one, you can advance your career with the skills you’ll learn in our master’s degree program. Hispanic Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Hispanic Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Given the Hispanic presence in the United States and the proximity of our Spanish-speaking neighbors in Latin America, being proficient in Spanish is ever more advantageous and even necessary for numerous careers and professions. History, BA Major, Minor Online History, BA Major, Minor Online Our program emphasizes research and communication skills. You'll learn to critically reconstruct the contexts and meanings of human actions throughout history from a wide range of perspectives–cultural, economic, political, and social–and to identify connections with the present. Human Resource Management, BBA Major, Minor Online Human Resource Management, BBA Major, Minor Online Properly managing employees is a key element in the success of any organization, whether it’s a business, government agency, nonprofit group, or academic institution. Human Services, Minor Minor Online Human Services, Minor Minor Online The minor in human services gives you maximum flexibility to choose courses that meet your personal interests and professional goals. Courses are drawn from the fields of social work, counseling, addiction and recovery services, and child life. Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Human-Centered Design and Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Learn how to research, identify, document, and translate user requirements and needs, generate creative ideas, and implement and evaluate products and services in a scientific way with the master’s degree in human-centered design and engineering from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Human-Centered Engineering Design, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Human-Centered Engineering Design, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Our human-centered engineering design program focuses on solving problems through design. The interdisciplinary field bridges human-centered design, engineering design, art design, social sciences, and business principles. It involves a thinking process that provides engineers with the technical background to research, identify, translate, and document user needs and then Humanities, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Humanities, Minor/Concentration Minor Online A grounding in the humanities prepares you to face today’s challenges–challenges whose solutions depend on joining technical and scientific knowledge with a deep understanding of the world’s political, cultural and economic complexities. Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Major Online Industrial and Systems Engineering and Manufacturing Engineering, BSE (Dual Degrees) Major Online Boost your knowledge, skills, and job opportunities by pursuing two engineering degrees at once. Our dual degree program in industrial and systems engineering and manufacturing engineering at UM-Dearborn prepares you for the world of advanced manufacturing technology and systems improvement. Industrial and Systems Engineering, BSE Major, STEM Online Industrial and Systems Engineering, BSE Major, STEM Online If you like variety in your work, industrial and systems engineering may be a great career to pursue. Historically, industrial and systems engineers worked in manufacturing industries, but today they design and improve the performance of systems in a wide spectrum of fields, including service, energy, transportation, finance, and health care. While their quantitative metho Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Industrial and Systems Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online This program at UM-Dearborn is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, improving, and evaluating large integrated systems that include people, materials, information, equipment, and energy. Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Industrial and Systems Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online If you want to acquire the advanced knowledge needed to become a creative researcher, technical leader, and technology innovator in industrial and systems engineering, our PhD program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is for you. Industrial Mechatronics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Industrial Mechatronics, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Industrial mechatronics is a versatile field that merges mechanical, electrical, and computer engineering through intelligent design. At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, we offer a rich, interdisciplinary curriculum for this graduate certificate that delves into both the traditional foundations and the emerging areas of this field. Information Systems and Technology, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Information Systems and Technology, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online This 30-credit program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is ideal for engineers, computer scientists, business people, and other professionals who are responsible for designing, installing, managing, improving, and evaluating integrated enterprise-wide information systems. The program emphasizes using business processes and enterprise resource planning software to int Information Systems Management, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Information Systems Management, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Computerized information systems are pivotal to the success of any modern business, making demand high for professionals who can integrate and manage them. Information Systems Security, Minor Minor Online Information Systems Security, Minor Minor Online Amid seemingly constant cyberattacks against business and government computer systems, demand for professionals who can protect critical data has never been higher. Add information security skills to your program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn with a minor from the College of Business. Information Systems, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Information Systems, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Develop skills in enterprise systems, analytics, and AI at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The MS in Information Systems is evolving into an enhanced MS in Business Analytics with an Intelligent Systems focus, preparing you for data-driven roles across industries. Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, BA Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, BA Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online You’ll learn about the latest, most effective methods for using digital tech in our instructional design and technology program. Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA Master's Degree Online Instructional Design and Learning Technologies, MA Master's Degree Online Embark on an in-depth exploration of instructional design principles, learning technology tools, and strategies to create effective educational experiences for diverse audiences in our fully online Master’s Degree. Integrative Studies, BA/BS Major Online Integrative Studies, BA/BS Major Online Integrative studies is the most flexible major we offer at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It lets you customize your degree program to align with your unique interests, career goals, and aspirations. Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Intelligent Systems in Engineering Applications, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online This graduate certificate at UM-Dearborn introduces the core concepts of intelligent systems and a broad range of techniques for building, testing, and evaluating intelligent systems. It includes plenty of hands-on practice so you can apply your learning to real-world problems. International Studies, BA Major Online International Studies, BA Major Online Combine intense study of a foreign language and culture with preparation in your choice of professions in our flexible international studies program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Journalism and Media Production, BA Major, Minor Online Journalism and Media Production, BA Major, Minor Online Our bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn covers it all, from print journalism to podcasting to feature films, teaching you everything from the basics to advanced techniques for communicating your story. Law and Society, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Law and Society, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Your courses will explore the evolving nature of law, especially in the context of contemporary legal issues involving civil rights, human freedoms, criminal justice, constitutional interpretation, and the assertion of citizen rights. Leadership and Communication in Organizations, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Leadership and Communication in Organizations, Minor/Concentration Minor Online How do you judge the effectiveness of a leader, whether in business, government, or a nonprofit organization? Find out in our minor or integrative studies concentration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. You’ll also learn how to be a more effective leader in your career and your role as a citizen. LGBTQ Studies, Certificate Certificate Online LGBTQ Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Our interdisciplinary LGBTQ studies certificate at UM-Dearborn helps you understand how social, cultural, legal, and political factors influence the lives of LGBTQ individuals, families, and communities. Linguistics, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Linguistics, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Linguistics goes beyond written language to also include spoken and signed language. Instead of focusing on rules of proper usage, it emphasizes language as it’s actually used. Management, Minor Minor Online Management, Minor Minor Online Many jobs today have a management component, whether it’s managing people, projects, or processes. Add management skills to your program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn with a minor from the College of Business. It’s available to all UM-Dearborn students except those in the College of Business. Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Manufacturing Analytics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online The master’s program in manufacturing analytics engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides courses in both engineering and management. It’s designed to educate manufacturing professionals who will be designing, building, and managing the innovative production systems needed to compete in today’s world. Manufacturing Engineering, BSE Major, STEM Online Manufacturing Engineering, BSE Major, STEM Online Our industry-aligned manufacturing engineering program at UM-Dearborn examines all areas of manufacturing. It also provides thorough coverage of materials and manufacturing processes, and explores how to design, operate, and manage integrated systems that include people, materials, machine tools, material handling equipment, robots, quality measuring equipment, controls, a Manufacturing/ Mechanical Engineering, Dual BSE Major Online Manufacturing/ Mechanical Engineering, Dual BSE Major Online Place yourself at the forefront of innovation and problem-solving with the dual BSE program in manufacturing and mechanical engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Marketing Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Marketing Analytics, MS 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree, STEM Online Master data-driven marketing with a STEM-designated program featuring courses in analytics, AI, digital strategy, and marketing research. Marketing, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online Marketing, BBA Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master) Online The proliferation of smartphones and other electronic devices today makes it harder than ever before for marketers to attract consumer attention to their products, services, and experiences. Marketing, MS Master's Degree Online Marketing, MS Master's Degree Online Learn how to understand and influence customer behavior in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. We’ve designed the courses to maximize your career readiness, whether you’re interested in digital marketing, brand management, advertising, customer relationship management, data analytics, or another facet of marketing. Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Master of Public Administration and Policy (MPAP) 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), Master's Degree Online Mid-career professionals who work in government or nonprofit organizations and are committed to learning and developing as individuals, administrators, and policymakers are the primary audience for our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Materials and Manufacturing, Certificate Certificate Online Materials and Manufacturing, Certificate Certificate Online Engineering materials and manufacturing are important components of mechanical engineering. This certificate program deepens your understanding of the field and provides a useful credential. It combines theoretical knowledge with practical application, preparing you for a world that’s increasingly reliant on the interplay between manufacturing and design. Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Materials for Manufacturing, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Learn about the impact of processing variables on the properties of final products and how to make informed decisions about materials selection and product design in this graduate certificate program from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The program also enables you to explore composites, lightweight materials, and the digital manufacturing landscape. Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Materials Science and Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Obtain a comprehensive background in materials science and advanced engineering applications in our master’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The development of new materials drives innovations across many industries, and is especially critical to the automotive industry. The knowledge and skills you gain in your master’s degree program will put you o Mathematics, BA/BS Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Mathematics, BA/BS Major, Minor, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Our mathematics bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides a strong foundation in both theoretical and applied mathematics, preparing you for a wide range of opportunities in our data-driven world. You have many options to personalize the program with courses that fulfill your personal interests and professional goals. Mechanical Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Mechanical Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Mechanical engineering isn’t just related to mechanical devices like engines and machine parts. Modern mechanical engineers are designers who create physical systems of all types and ensure that technology solutions are effective, reliable, and safe. If you’d like to join this booming field, a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from UM-Dearborn will provide the kn Mechanical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Mechanical Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online What do you want to learn about mechanical engineering? It’s pretty much your choice in the master’s in mechanical engineering program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online Mechanical Sciences and Engineering, PhD Doctoral Degree, STEM Online We’ve designed our PhD program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn for talented students who will conduct original, innovative research in the engineering field, educate future generations, and play leading roles in developing cutting-edge technologies while working in industry, academia, or government. Mechatronics and Robotics, Certificate Certificate Online Mechatronics and Robotics, Certificate Certificate Online The field of mechatronics and robotics has become increasingly significant as industries dive into automation and smart technology. Our undergraduate certificate program introduces you to this rapidly evolving field, blending mechanical and electrical engineering to deliver a comprehensive understanding of innovative technological systems. Media Production, Certificate Certificate Online Media Production, Certificate Certificate Online Expand your technical skills and develop proficiency in storytelling, teamwork, and communication with our media production certificate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Certificate Certificate Online Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Certificate Certificate Online Manufacturing, testing for purity and safety, and research on medicinal and aromatic plants is a growing field–one where you can excel with our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Get introduced to the art, literature, religion, history, and philosophy of the period from Late Antiquity (ca. 400) to the seventeenth century in our interdisciplinary minor or integrative studies concentration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Microbiology, BS Major, STEM Online Microbiology, BS Major, STEM Online How can seemingly simple one-celled microorganisms have such a huge impact on our daily lives, for good and for bad? You’ll find out as you study viruses, bacteria, archaea bacteria, algae, fungi, and protozoa in our microbiology bachelor’s degree program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Middle East Studies, BA Major Online Middle East Studies, BA Major Online The bachelor’s degree in Middle East studies combines a comprehensive exploration of one of the world’s most volatile and significant regions with three years of foreign language study, typically in Arabic. The program can accept transfer credits in other Middle East languages with certain conditions. Middle East Studies, Certificate Certificate Online Middle East Studies, Certificate Certificate Online If you have a basic background in the history and culture of the Middle East, you can increase your knowledge in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The certificate is a valuable credential if you plan a career in international diplomacy, social services, academia, journalism, business, law, or other fields. Modeling and Simulations in Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Modeling and Simulations in Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Unlock the power of numerical modeling and simulations in engineering with our graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Our interdisciplinary curriculum is rich in both fundamental principles and modern applications. With no required core courses, you have the freedom to select courses that suit your personal interests and career goals. Music, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Music, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Enhance your understanding and enjoyment of music with a minor or integrative studies concentration in music at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Neuroscience, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Neuroscience, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The Neuroscience minor is an interdisciplinary program designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the nervous system&#39;s structure, development, and function. Nonprofit and Public Service Leadership, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Nonprofit and Public Service Leadership, Minor/Concentration Minor Online If you aspire to become a leader of a nonprofit group or government agency, our minor or integrative studies concentration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is for you. It’s available to undergraduate students in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters; the College of Business; and the College of Education, Health, and Human Services. Organizational Change in a Global Environment, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Organizational Change in a Global Environment, Minor/Concentration Minor Online In today’s environment, global issues are local and local issues are global. Understanding and responding to the most pressing issues we face at this intersection is the focus of our minor or integrative studies concentration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Pathway to Child Life Training Online Pathway to Child Life Training Online The 10-course Pathway to Child Life curriculum at UM-Dearborn helps students prepare to take the certification exam from the Association of Child Life Professionals. Philosophy, BA Major, Minor Online Philosophy, BA Major, Minor Online Guided by our dedicated faculty, you’ll develop powerful critical thinking and writing skills as you tackle these questions and many others. Our philosophy program not only prepares you for a range of careers, but for life’s challenges and choices. Physics, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Physics, BS Major, Minor, STEM Online Physics is the study of the most fundamental properties of matter and energy, and it helps us understand the universe in which we live. All the other science and engineering disciplines depend on the foundation of physics. Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Plastic and Composite Materials, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate program in plastic and composite materials bridges theory and practice in one of the fastest-growing areas of engineering. Our curriculum focuses on the design and manufacture of plastics and composite materials, particularly for automotive applications. Your courses will include practice-based learning about design, testing, manufacturing, and qua Political Science, BA Major, Minor Online Political Science, BA Major, Minor Online Political science is about power: who has it, how they use it, how they retain it, and how they respond to efforts to wrest it away. It explores some of today’s hottest topics: Should women have the right to get an abortion? How does society keep police officers accountable? What should the United States do to protect democracy at home and advance human rights abroad? Practical Aspects of Computer Security, Certificate Certificate Online Practical Aspects of Computer Security, Certificate Certificate Online If you’d like an entry-level job in IT security, this certificate will provide you with the essential computer science concepts, basic security principles, and tools and experience you need. In the four-course, 15-credit certificate program you’ll learn about computer security principles, firewalls, malware, intrusion detection, physical security, wireless network security Pre-Health Professional Studies, Minor Minor Online Pre-Health Professional Studies, Minor Minor Online If you plan to apply to a graduate clinical or medical training program, the minor in pre-health professional studies can help you master material covered on standardized entrance exams and during interviews. Professional Language and Cross-Cultural Competency, Certificate Certificate Online Professional Language and Cross-Cultural Competency, Certificate Certificate Online Boost your language skills in Arabic, French, or Spanish and your knowledge of business practices in the target culture with our 12-credit certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It will equip you with the cultural knowledge and linguistic skills necessary to excel in any professional setting and to thrive in our interconnected global economy. Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Major Online Professional Writing and Rhetoric, BA Major Online Whether you plan to pursue a career as a professional writer or a job where writing is among your job duties, our bachelor’s degree in professional writing and rhetoric at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will prepare you to succeed. Program and Project Management, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Program and Project Management, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online From major corporations to tech start-ups, every industry needs skilled managers to ensure that programs and projects are completed on schedule, on budget, and with high-quality outcomes. Our graduate certificate in program and project management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is ideal for professionals who want to enhance their capabilities in managing complex pro Program and Project Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Program and Project Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online As a student in our graduate program at UM-Dearborn, you’ll master the art of managing complex programs and projects. You’ll learn how to efficiently plan and organize resources so that programs and projects are completed on schedule, on budget, and with high-quality results. The program is ideal for professionals who want to enhance their ability to coordinate major proje Psychology, BA/BS Major, Minor Online Psychology, BA/BS Major, Minor Online Expand your understanding of the human condition from a multitude of perspectives as a psychology major. Your courses will explore a wide spectrum–from natural sciences such as biology and physiology to social science disciplines like anthropology and sociology–teaching you how to understand, predict, and modify behavior and psychological processes of individuals. Public Health, Minor Minor Online Public Health, Minor Minor Online Depending on which courses you choose, the minor in public health can help you develop skills in health education and communication, community organizing, epidemiology, program planning and evaluation, fundraising, grant writing, public policy formation, and more. Public Relations, Certificate, Minor/Concentration Minor, Certificate Online Public Relations, Certificate, Minor/Concentration Minor, Certificate Online Virtually every organization of any size–from businesses to nonprofits to government agencies–engages in public relations to shape its message and image. You can gain entry-level PR skills in our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Religious Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Religious Studies, Minor/Concentration Minor Online The first place of worship in southeast Michigan was established in 1701. Today, southeast Michigan is one of the most ethnically and religiously diverse regions in the nation, home to a wide array of Christians, Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, Janis, Buddhists, Baha’is, and others. Our religious studies program at UM-Dearborn will introduce you to the traditions and influence of th Research Administration, BA Major Online Research Administration, BA Major Online The Bachelor of Arts in Research Administration at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is designed to equip you with the specialized knowledge and leadership skills to manage research initiatives effectively across diverse settings. Robotics Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Robotics Engineering, BSE Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Robots haven’t taken over the world (at least not yet), but their importance constantly grows in manufacturing, logistics, health care, defense, and many other areas. Our bachelor’s degree in robotics engineering will teach you important concepts in robotics, electrical and computer engineering, systems engineering, and mechanical engineering, as well as how to apply the c Robotics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Robotics Engineering, MSE Master's Degree, STEM Online Work hands-on with robots while gaining a deep understanding of important concepts in robotics, electrical and computer engineering, systems engineering, and mechanical engineering in our master’s degree program in robotics engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Secondary Education, BA Major Online Secondary Education, BA Major Online When you graduate, you’ll be an experienced teacher ready to confidently walk into your own secondary classroom for the first time. Social Science Research Methodology, Minor/Concentration Minor Online Social Science Research Methodology, Minor/Concentration Minor Online This minor/concentration focuses on social science research methods and statistical analysis. Sociology, BA Major, Minor Online Sociology, BA Major, Minor Online Our sociology program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn explores how individual and collective actions shape society, while examining the interconnection between personal experiences and public issues. Students will gain an understanding of how the economy, government, family, education, religion, and related factors influence individual attitudes and behaviors. Software Engineering, BS Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Software Engineering, BS Major, 4+1 (accelerated bachelor/master), STEM Online Software powers our world, and our Bachelor of Science in software engineering at UM-Dearborn comprehensively covers all software development life cycle phases, balancing theory with practice through team-based projects. Software Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Software Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online The 12-credit Graduate Certificate in software engineering includes core engineering courses and electives that provide a graduate introduction to software engineering, software reliability, management, interface design, and case studies. Software Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Software Engineering, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online As the field of software engineering continues growing in complexity, the demand for engineers with advanced knowledge and skills continues skyrocketing. A Master of Science in software engineering degree from the University of Michigan-Dearborn will give you what it takes to meet today’s software challenges. Spanish for Health Care Professionals, Certificate Certificate Online Spanish for Health Care Professionals, Certificate Certificate Online Our certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn will teach you how to better serve Hispanic patients who otherwise may not get equal access to health care services due to linguistic and cultural barriers. All courses are offered online. Sports Management, BA Major, Minor Online Sports Management, BA Major, Minor Online If you want to be part of the next generation of sports industry professionals, enroll in our program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn to learn the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and ethical frameworks you’ll need to create inclusive and equitable sports environments at any level. Supply Chain Management, BBA Major, Minor, STEM Online Supply Chain Management, BBA Major, Minor, STEM Online Supply chains – and their breakdowns almost everywhere – became huge news when the Covid pandemic hit. Consumers and employers alike gained a new appreciation for the people who efficiently get supplies and goods to the right place at the right time and at the right price. Supply Chain Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online Supply Chain Management, MS Master's Degree, STEM Online To succeed in the global economy, companies need effective, highly trained supply chain managers to help minimize costs and maximize efficiency in manufacturing and distributing products. Sustainability, the Economy, and Environmental Policy, BA Major Online Sustainability, the Economy, and Environmental Policy, BA Major Online Do you want to make a real difference in your community and beyond? The Bachelor of Arts in Sustainability, the Economy, and Environmental Policy (StEEP) at the University of Michigan-Dearborn is designed for students who want to be leaders and decision-makers—ready to tackle today’s most complex sustainability challenges. Systems Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Systems Engineering, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate in systems engineering at UM-Dearborn is designed for engineers and other professionals who are responsible for defining, planning, managing, and supporting large integrated systems. The program seeks to enhance both your technical competencies and your management skills. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Certificate Certificate Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Certificate Certificate Online With English spreading more and more around the world, there’s a growing demand for people who can teach English to non-native speakers. Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Earn your certificate through this fully online program and be prepared to teach English locally, nationally, and globally. Teaching, MA Master's Degree Online Teaching, MA Master's Degree Online The program prepares you to be a dynamic and effective middle school or high school educator in a subject of your choice. Urban and Regional Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Urban and Regional Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Our program is interdisciplinary, drawing from traditional academic disciplines like anthropology, economics, English, geography, history and sociology to give you a well-rounded understanding of urbanization. Vehicle Electronics and Controls, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Vehicle Electronics and Controls, Graduate Certificate Certificate Online Our graduate certificate program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn provides an in-depth understanding of both analog and digital electronics integral to modern vehicles. You'll master the design of commonly used electrical circuits and gain hands-on experience with microprocessors. Our program includes practical laboratory work and group design projects, offering hand Vehicles and Mobility, Certificate Certificate Online Vehicles and Mobility, Certificate Certificate Online Explore the cutting edge of next-generation transportation systems with a certificate in vehicles and mobility from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. It will help prepare you for a career in automotive engineering, vehicle design, technology development, research, and other fields. Women's and Gender Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Women's and Gender Studies, BA Major, Minor Online Pursue your interest in gender equity and social justice while developing skills employers and graduate programs desire in the women’s and gender studies program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Writing, Certificate Certificate Online Enhance your writing ability and earn an important credential on your transcript with a writing certificate from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. With the nationwide demand for employees who have strong writing skills, the certificate can help you stand out to employers no matter what field you pursue. Load All Programs Showing 10 out of 209 Results Showing 209 out of 209 Results Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Plan a Visit Request Information Apply