Breadcrumb Home Campus Life Beyond Campus In this section In this section Campus Life Toggle Submenu Michigan Experience Get Involved Housing Health and Wellness Athletics Working and Studying Beyond Campus Beyond Campus Branch out beyond campus. Experience what your community has to offer. Pull glass with world-class artisans at nearby Greenfield Village. Take a quick trip to Detroit, where you can cheer on the Tigers at Comerica Park and check out more than 60,000 pieces of artwork at the Detroit Institute of Arts. Metropolitan Detroit is home to music venues small and large that attract majors acts as well as beloved local bands.Southeast Michigan has so much to offer, from lush nature reserves to a budding tech-savvy start-up scene, world cuisine to homegrown arts. Whether you’re interested in a visit or in spending your life here, make sure you make time to explore. Explore Dearborn, Detroit and beyond. The University of Michigan-Dearborn is located a short walk, bike ride or drive away from Dearborn’s West Downtown, which offers an eclectic range of restaurants, coffee shops, bars, galleries and green spaces that reflect the city’s diversity. And Dearborn is home to two world-renowned cultural institutions: The Henry Ford & Greenfield Village and the Arab American National Museum. Just down the road in Detroit, you can cheer on four major-league sports teams – or pop over to neighboring Hamtramck to spur on local favorites Detroit City FC. The city’s Cultural Center boasts several world-class museums and cultural venues, including the Detroit Institute of Arts, the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History, the Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Music Center (home of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra) and Detroit Public Theatre. The birthplace of three major musical movements–Motown, garage rock and techno–Detroit is a music-lover’s dream. In addition to venues large, small and in-between, it is home to the world-famous Movement Electronic Music Festival and the Detroit Jazz Festival. Food options in Detroit are just as varied, from hip burger joints to Chopped-winning fare from Burundi to fancy farm-to-table. If being outdoors is your thing, you’re covered! Our campus is part of the Rouge Gateway Trail system and Detroit boasts a bustling RiverWalk as well as Belle Isle, a 985-acre state park. Michigan is the Great Lakes State, and countless beaches, trails and recreation opportunities are a short drive away – or hop on the train at the John D. Dingell Transit Center, less than a mile from campus. Visit Campus UM-Dearborn Difference Maker Our students are improving the lives of others and making an impact in the community. Meet more Difference Makers. Lena Rammouni My involvement in research and various organizations has left a lasting impact on my character. I put my best foot forward when it comes to serving others. Lena Rammouni ‘19 Behavioral and Biological Sciences