Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) CASL Graduate Programs draftsContact Us Apply Related Resources Department of Natural Sciences College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Office of Graduate Studies Discover the World of Life Sciences with Our Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) ProgramAre you ready to take the next step towards your dream career? At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, our Biological and Biomedical Sciences (MS) program will equip you with the essential knowledge and skills you need through a carefully structured curriculum and support from experienced faculty. Building on our successful model of small class sizes and close relationships between students and faculty, you will gain practical experience that will help you become a competitive candidate in the health and science industry. Whether you are looking to apply to pre-health, health-related graduate programs such as medical, dental or pharmacy, doctoral programs, enter a science-related field in academia or biotech industries, or change careers, our program will help you get there. With this program you will have the opportunity to learn from and work with scientists across a wide range of fields, from neuroscience and cell biology to bioinformatics and biophysics, allowing you to craft a program that caters to your own interests and goals. Special Note for International Students: We are currently awaiting government approval to issue I-20s for this program. Until approval is received, we cannot admit international students requiring an F-1 student visa to attend. At this time, we do not have a timeline for when we will be able to sponsor F-1 visas for this program.Where an MS in Biological and Biomedical Sciences Will Take YouGraduates of this program can pursue a diverse range of career and educational paths. For students who would like to pursue a graduate program in a health-related field such as medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, or a PhD program, this master’s degree strengthens their application, helps to build a stronger relationship with faculty who will be writing reference letters, and provides them invaluable laboratory experience at an advanced level. For students who would like to directly enter the job market, a master’s degree, along with relevant hands-on experience in a research setting, allows graduates to find a fulfilling career as a research scientist, laboratory technician, microbiologist, epidemiologist, or another related field within an academic setting such as a university, or within the biotechnology industry. Program Details What You’ll Study There are two tracks for the graduate program:Plan A (Coursework)Coursework track requires a minimum of 30 credits to be earned through coursework only (10 courses).Credit hours will be completed through 15 credit hours of core coursework (5 courses) and 15 credit hours of elective courses (5 courses), with no oral defense required. The coursework track can be completed part-time for up to five years.All admitted students are eligible for this path. Plan B (Research/Thesis)Thesis track requires the undertaking of a research project under the supervision of a tenure-track faculty member as an advisor, culminating in the preparation and submission of a thesis for review and approval, as well as a successful oral defense.Credit hours will be completed through 15 credit hours of core coursework (5 courses), 3 credit hours through one elective course, and 12 credit hours of thesis research.Space in the thesis path is limited and the program does not guarantee thesis track placement for all students.For further information about the thesis track, please contact the director of the BBMS program Dr. John Abramyan (abramyan@umich.edu) Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain In this program, you will have extensive access to research equipment as well as experienced faculty with a wide variety of expertise. Gain an advanced understanding of research design and methodology, as well as identifying, reading, processing, and applying content from published scientific works. Specific skills include work alongside faculty with expertise in cell and molecular biology (cell/tissue culture, immunofluorescence staining, fluorescence microscopy, cell transfection, western blot), developmental biology (embryo micromanipulation, histology, microscopy, micro-CT analysis), microbiology (aseptic techniques, bacterial culture, Biosafety Level 2 [BSL2] practices), as well as a variety of computational analyses used for a wide range of studies from gene evolution to population genetics. Admission Requirements An applicant to this program should hold a B.A. or a B.S. degree in biological sciences or a related field from an accredited program with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale). Individuals with grades less than a 3.0 average may be considered if they submit evidence of potential for success in the MSBS program. Standardized tests, such as GRE, are not required, however GRE scores may be substituted in place of low GPA. Students with undergraduate degrees not directly related to biological sciences may be admitted to the program as long as they have taken BIOL140 or an equivalent course through an accredited program and an upper-level cellular/molecular biology course and meet all other admissions guidelines. It is suggested that such students contact the director of graduate studies for more information prior to submitting an application. *International Students – Minimum TOEFL score of 79 iBT; IELTS: overall minimum required score of 6.5. To apply, students should include the following with their application:A one-page statement of purpose explaining your career goals and specific reasons for interest in the programTwo letters of recommendation, with at least one from a professor familiar with your academic performance Earn Your Bachelor’s and Master's Degrees in Five Years (4+1) Completing your undergraduate and graduate degrees in five years can save you time and money. Under the discretion of the Department of Natural Sciences Graduate Studies Committee, any student enrolled in an undergraduate degree program at UM-Dearborn could be eligible to also complete this master’s program as a 4+1 program. Undergraduate programs that likely work best with this masters program include Biological Science, Biochemistry, and Microbiology.Participation in the 4+1 program is limited to students who:Are enrolled in an undergraduate program at UM-DearbornHave completed at least 60 undergraduate credit hoursEarned a cumulative GPA of at least 3.25Are not enrolled in two undergraduate programs or in a dual-degree program in either their undergraduate or graduate program Applying to the 4+1/Accelerated option is a two-stage process coordinated with both your undergraduate and graduate advising teams. For detailed instructions and application links, please visit the central 4+1 programs webpage. Associated Faculty John Abramyan Associate Professor of Biology; Director of Graduate Studiesabramyan@umich.edu Matthew HeinickeProfessor of Biology; Associate Dean of CASLheinicke@umich.edu Christopher AlteriAssociate Professor of Biology and Microbiologyalteri@umich.edu Melissa BowlinAssociate Professor of Biologymbowlin@umich.edu Anne Danielson-FrancoisAssociate Professor of Biologydanfranc@umich.edu Jie FanAssistant Professor of Biologyjiefan@umich.edu Kalyan KondapalliAssociate Professor of Biologykondap@umich.edu Nicholas LicataAssociate Professor of Physicslicata@umich.edu Peter OelkersAssociate Professor of Biological Sciences and Biochemistrypoelkers@umich.edu David SuskoAssociate Professor of Biologydsusko@umich.edu Sonia Tiquia-ArashiroProfessor of Biology and Microbiologysmtiquia@umich.edu Suvranta TripathyAssistant Professor of Physicssuvranta@umich.edu Besa XhabijaAssistant Professor of Biochemistryxhabija@umich.edu Zhi (Elena) ZhangAssociate Professor of Neurobiology zhizhan@umich.edu Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States for 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Medical Scientists Epidemiologists Microbiologist Biochemists and Biophysicists Clinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians Medical Scientists $100,590 Median SalaryMedical Scientists Employment of medical scientists is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for medical scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Epidemiologists $83,980 Median SalaryEpidemiologists Employment of epidemiologists is projected to grow 16 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 800 openings for epidemiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Microbiologist $87,330 Median SalaryMicrobiologist Employment of microbiologists is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 1,700 openings for microbiologists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Biochemists and Biophysicists $103,650 Median SalaryBiochemists and Biophysicists Employment of biochemists and biophysicists is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 2,900 openings for biochemists and biophysicists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Clinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians $61,890 Median SalaryClinical Laboratory Technologists and Technicians Employment of clinical laboratory technologists and technicians is projected to grow 2 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 22,600 openings for clinical laboratory technologists and technicians are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Related Programs Biological Sciences, BS Microbiology, BS Biochemistry, BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit