Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSE Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering, MSE ECE Graduate Program Coordinator draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5420(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering and Computer Science Help Develop Clean Energy SolutionsWe’ve designed this 30-credit graduate program to meet the rising demand for engineers with in-depth knowledge about alternative and renewable energy production, utilization and demand. You’ll acquire systems-based knowledge in energy systems and sustainability through core and concentration courses.You can take classes in person, online, or a combination of both. We schedule all classes in the late afternoon and evening so they’re convenient for part-time students who work.Where an MSE in Energy Systems Will Take YouThe expected growth in the energy industries and in concerns about sustainability mean your MSE in Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering should open up a multitude of opportunities. Graduates will be ready for exciting careers with large and small energy companies, the automotive industry and other industries where energy plays a critical role, environmental organizations, agencies at all levels of government, research organizations, and many others. Program Details What You’ll Study The 30 credit MSE in Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering program is designed to help you engage with the latest industry topics, like sustainable energy sources, energy generation and storage, energy and environmental policies and risk benefit analysis. We offer specific Energy Systems and Sustainability concentrations, or you can choose a more general approach that borrows from diverse areas including mechanical, electrical, environmental, and manufacturing aspects of energy engineering.You’ll learn about how to apply power generation and propulsion technologies to innovate within the automotive industry and create new solutions for future vehicles using technology like electric batteries and fuel cells. You’ll have access to a dozen engineering labs that include more than 200 state-of-the-art computers, high-performance workstations and the latest software, all housed in our Tony England Engineering Lab Building. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You’ll Gain Your coursework includes hands-on labs, projects and research opportunities. Our internship, research, and study abroad programs also offer a wealth of real-world opportunities. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Online Options The Energy Systems and Sustainability Engineering program is also offered online through CECS Online. The online courses utilize video streaming of the lectures given on campus. The online students have the opportunity to interact with the instructors and with fellow students (both on campus as well as online) through CANVAS. The class lectures, notes, and discussions are posted on CANVAS for online students' access. Admission Requirements Bachelor's degree in engineering with an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher.Undergraduate degree in science, technology, math, and business may also be admitted to the program after completion of selected engineering courses determined upon evaluation of their educational background.GRE not requiredLetters of recommendation are not required, but may be included if desired. We recommend submitting a recommendation if your GPA is below 3.0 or if you have a non-traditional background for your program of interest. Ready to Apply? Tuition Estimate your cost of attendance per semester. Graduate Tuition and Funding Application Deadline This program operates on a rolling admission basis. It is advised to submit all documents by the advisory deadline to ensure consideration for your preferred term and to facilitate pre-term planning. Advisory deadlines differ for domestic and international students. View Advisory Deadlines Graduate Scholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities for new and continuing graduate students. View Scholarships Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Environmental Engineers Civil Engineers Industrial Engineers Mechanical Engineers Electrical and Electronics Engineers Environmental Engineers $104,170 Median SalaryEnvironmental Engineers Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 4 percent from 2024 to 2034, about as fast as the average for all occupations.About 3,000 openings for environmental engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Civil Engineers $99,590 Median SalaryCivil Engineers Employment of civil engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,600 openings for civil engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Industrial Engineers $101,140 Median SalaryIndustrial Engineers Employment of industrial engineers is projected to grow 11 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 25,200 openings for industrial engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Mechanical Engineers $102,320 Median SalaryMechanical Engineers Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 9 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 18,100 openings for mechanical engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Electrical and Electronics Engineers $118,780 Median SalaryElectrical and Electronics Engineers Overall employment of electrical and electronics engineers is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 17,500 openings for electrical and electronics engineers are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Programs Offered Beyond MSE Computer and Information Science, PhD Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Engineering, PhD Electrical and Computer Engineering, DEng Related Programs Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, MS Computer Engineering, MSE Robotics Engineering, MSE Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit