Your browser does not support the video tag. Pause Background Video Play Background Video Economics and Computation, BS Request Information Breadcrumb Home Academics Find Your Program Economics and Computation, BS Undergraduate Admissions draftsContact Us Phone: 313-593-5300(link is a phone number) Apply Related Resources Social Sciences Meet the Faculty College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Shape Digital MarketplacesPrepare to thrive in the digital economy in our program at the University of Michigan-Dearborn that offers a cutting-edge combination of economics and computer science. Our program integrates economic reasoning, empirical data analysis, computer systems, programming, and web technology to prepare you for a variety of positions managing large, complex digital marketplaces.Where an Economics and Computation Degree Will Take YouWith a degree in Economics and Computation, you can pursue careers that blend quantitative analysis, programming, and economic modelling to solve real-world problems. Here is a selection of industry needs in this field: economic modeling and simulation, where professionals use computational techniques to predict market trends, and business optimization, where companies leverage data to enhance efficiency and decision-making; AI and machine learning, you can develop predictive models for financial markets, consumer behavior, or policy evaluation; market analysis with big data involves extracting insights from large datasets to drive business strategies and public policy. Specific roles include data analyst, interpreting complex datasets to guide business decisions; algorithmic trader, designing automated trading strategies; policy analyst, evaluating economic policies using computational methods; business intelligence analyst, transforming raw data into actionable insights; economist, applying statistical models to economic forecasting; data scientist, utilizing machine learning to analyze vast datasets; and information systems analyst, optimizing data-driven decision-making for organizations. Career and Salary Outlook The information in this table is meant to give you an idea of career opportunities with this degree. All information is pulled from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and is meant to be averages across the United States in 2024. Please note that these figures reflect overall averages and may not represent entry-level salaries. Economists Data Scientists Financial Analysts Operations Research Analysts Market Research Analysts Economists $115,440 Median SalaryEconomists (master’s usually required) Employment of economists is projected to grow 1 percent from 2024 to 2034, slower than the average for all occupations.Despite limited employment growth, about 900 openings for economists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Most of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Data Scientists $112,590 Median SalaryData Scientists Employment of data scientists is projected to grow 34 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 23,400 openings for data scientists are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Financial Analysts $101,910 Median SalaryFinancial Analysts Overall employment of financial analysts is projected to grow 6 percent from 2024 to 2034, faster than the average for all occupations.About 29,900 openings for financial analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Operations Research Analysts $91,290 Median SalaryOperations Research Analysts Employment of operations research analysts is projected to grow 21 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 9,600 openings for operations research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Market Research Analysts $76,950 Median SalaryMarket Research Analysts Employment of market research analysts is projected to grow 7 percent from 2024 to 2034, much faster than the average for all occupations.About 87,200 openings for market research analysts are projected each year, on average, over the decade. Many of those openings are expected to result from the need to replace workers who transfer to different occupations or exit the labor force, such as to retire. Program Details What You'll Study You’ll learn in-demand skills in programming, data management, economics, and quantitative analysis. The program requires:Prerequisite courses in computer science, mathematics, and economicsCore courses of 20 credits in computer and information science, economics, and statistics.Four upper-level electives in economics and one in computer and information science or statistics. Explore Program Requirements Practical Skills You'll Gain A major in Economics and Computation teaches in-demand skills useful for shaping markets and incentives.ProgrammingData ManagementEconomicsQuantitative AnalysisYour courses will emphasize hands-on learning. More real-world experiences are available in UM-Dearborn’s internship, research, and study abroad programs. Check out the pages for these programs, and talk to your professors to learn more. Imagine combining economic reasoning with cutting-edge tech skills; you're not just studying markets - you're shaping them. Hans Czap, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Economics, Economics and Computation Program Advisor Ready to Apply? Application Deadlines UM-Dearborn has rolling admissions throughout the year, and deadlines depend on your student type. Apply early, priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships may be given to earlier applicants. View Application Deadlines Tuition Get started early on your financial planning for college. Complete the net price calculator to get an estimate of your cost to attend UM-Dearborn. Complete the Net Price Tuition Calculator Go Blue Guarantee Students at UM-Dearborn are eligible for the Go Blue Guarantee - University of Michigan’s landmark promise of free tuition for high-achieving in-state undergraduate students from qualifying backgrounds. Major financial support is available for students who do not fully qualify. Go Blue Guarantee Learn what you need to enter the fast-growing field of digital markets with your BS in Economics and Computation! How to Get Involved At UM-Dearborn, there are endless opportunities to get involved. You can participate in research projects with your professors, volunteer within the community, and join any of the more than 130 student clubs and organizations on campus.Some of the student organizations that may especially interest you include the Economics Club, Association for Computing Machinery, Women in Business, American Marketing Association, and the Collegiate Entrepreneurship Organization. Related Programs Economics, BA/BS Data Science/Economics, Dual BS Applied Statistics, BA/BS Next Steps Become a part of the UM-Dearborn community and put your dreams to work for you. Request Information Apply Plan a Visit