Breadcrumb Home About UM-Dearborn Facts and Figures Facts and Figures What sets the University of Michigan-Dearborn apart? UM-Dearborn opens the door to opportunity. We offer a nationally ranked, practiced-based, affordable education, small class sizes, renowned faculty and an extensive alumni network. Our students come from all over the world – and right here at home. They graduate into rewarding, high-paying careers, helping to drive Michigan’s economy. We take tremendous pride in our outsize impact in southeast Michigan and in supporting students from diverse backgrounds on their journey to success. 8,005 students6,199 Undergraduate, 1,669 Graduate and 137 DoctoralAcademic Year 2025-2026 2,118 degrees granted1,389 Bachelor's, 707 Master's, and 22 DoctoralAcademic Year 2024-2025 Undergraduate Students 3.7Average GPA of incoming first-year class 94%are Michigan residents representing 47 counties 88birth countries represented 44% of new students (first-year and transfer) are first-generation college students 32% students of color 53% are Pell eligible Academics 97 Major programs 70 Minor programs 68 Graduate programs and certificates 7 Doctoral programs All Ph.D. programs are Rackham sanctioned 1:16faculty : student ratio 27 Average class size 62% of classes have less than 30 students UM-Dearborn is home to four colleges College of Arts, Sciences, & Letters College of Business College of Education, Health, and Human Services College of Engineering and Computer Science Research Total Awards:$12,409,280 After Graduation 4th HIGHEST median annual earnings of students after graduation among 15 Michigan public universitiesInformation based on students who received financial aid 10 years after entering school.Source: According to the U.S. Department of Education College Scorecard 3rd BEST investment compared to future value of 10-year earnings among 15 Michigan public universitiesSource: According to the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce Report 70,000+ UM-Dearborn alumni, part of the 690,000+ strong U-M alumni network 94% of students who accepted employment in 2024-25 stay in Michigan following graduation** 73%are employed** 16%are attending graduate school** 21%are still seeking employment (some attending graduate school may also be seeking employment)** ** Based on UM-Dearborn Career Services survey of the Class of 2024-25, ~66% knowledge rate, combines survey responses with knowledge gained from LinkedIn. This data may not equal 100% due to respondents falling across multiple options. Keeping College Affordable The Lowest average annual cost among 15 public Michigan universitiesAccording to the U.S. Department of Education College Scorecard 35% of full-time in-state undergraduate students have tuition and fees fully covered by scholarships National Recognition U.S. News & World Report has consistently named UM-Dearborn one of the best regional universities in the Midwest. This year the university was ranked the number one regional public universities in Michigan and 3rd in the Midwest. College of Business programs are among the nation's best, according to U.S. News & World Report, Poets & Quants and Princeton Review. Ranked #1 regional university in Michigan for Social Mobility and for Veterans by U.S. News & World Report. Our undergraduate engineering programs and our computer science program in the College of Engineering and Computer Science both rank among the top for public universities in Michigan. Our undergraduate psychology program in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters has been named a top program in Michigan. Washington Monthly recognized UM-Dearborn as a top master’s degree university based on the university’s contribution to the public good, as well as a “Best Bang for the Buck” school. The university was also recognized on the Forbes list of America’s Top Colleges. 1 of 3 UM-Dearborn is one of only 3 public universities in Michigan to be named to WalletHub's Top 300 schools in the U.S., based on factors including performance, career outcomes and cost. 1 of 4 UM-Dearborn was just one of four Michigan public universities to be named an Opportunity University by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the American Council on Education. There are only 192 institutions nationwide that received this designation, which is based on both access for and future earnings of students from low-income backgrounds. Rankings and HonorsUM-Dearborn has been recognized as a gold-level veteran-friendly school by the Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency, based on the university's commitment to supporting student veterans and their dependents on campus.UM-Dearborn is one of 13 universities and colleges in Michigan to earn the Carnegie Foundation Elective Community Engagement classification. AccreditationThe University of Michigan-Dearborn earns its accreditation through the Higher Learning Commission (HLC), the regional accrediting organization approved by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) for degree-granting institutions in the state of Michigan. Learn more about our accreditations.